The archdevils who rule the Seven Cities of
Hell scheme and plot endlessly, eternally.
Each seeks to bring the others to heel. To
ascend to the Throne of Hell, unite the
seven cities and every infernal thing that
lives there, and lead an infinite army of devils across
the timescape until all worlds burn.
Their elite shock troops, the terror-commandos
of Hell, are the illriggers. Knights of Hell, they are
charismatic counter-paladins who master devils, disrupt enemy organizations, and command
Hell’s armies.
The Order of Desolation
Millennia ago, the Lords of Hell did something
remarkable: they cooperated. They came together
to create the Order of Desolation, knights sworn to
serve Hell first, their patron archdevil second.
Acceptance into the Order of Desolation makes
you a comrade with every other illrigger, regardless
of which archdevil you serve. Each archdevil has
churches, underground fanes, secret societies, cults.
All with leaders manically devoted to the archdevil
who grants them their power. But this association of
illriggers consider themselves above the petty political squabbles that divide the seven cities.
Members of the Order of Desolation, also known
as the Desolate, are expected to be intelligent,
resourceful, tactical, manipulative. A temple or cult
might conclude that the presence of an illrigger in
their midst is a sign that their archdevil approves of
their actions, but the illriggers are independent. The
order was founded to give the Lords of Hell agents
capable of acting across the timescape, free from
the direct control of their patron. An illrigger has
many powerful abilities granted by their archdevil,
but more precious is their patron’s trust. Left to their
own devices, the illrigger is expected to sow discord,
pain, strife, deceit, and fear without instruction or
supervision.
It is not unusual, therefore, for a member of the
Order of Desolation to rely on other members of
the order first, even from illriggers who serve other
archdevils, before going to any church, cult, or temple devoted to their own archdevil.
Class Features
As an illrigger, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d10 per illrigger level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your
Constitution modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) +
your Constitution modifier per illrigger
level after 1st
Proficiencies
Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Constitution, Charisma
Skills: Choose two from Arcana, Athletics,
Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation,
Persuasion, and Religion
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition
to the equipment granted by your background:
• (a) a martial weapon and a shield or
(b) two martial weapons
• (a) chain shirt or (b) leather armor, longbow,
and 20 arrows
• (a) a priest’s pack or (b) a dungeoneer’s pack
• A holy symbol, two daggers, and five javelins
6
Multiclassing
An existing character choosing to multiclass into
illrigger must meet the following prerequisites:
Charisma 13 and
Strength 13 or Dexterity 13
You gain the following proficiencies when you
choose illrigger as a new class: light armor,
medium armor, shields, simple weapons, and martial weapons.
Multiclass characters divide their illrigger levels
by three for the purposes of determining how many
spell slots they get. This may result in an Architect
of Ruin losing a spell level, but Asmodeus takes a
dim view of Illriggers who stray from strict commitment to the path of Hell.
Forked Tongue
You have a facility with speech and know how to
manipulate an audience. Whenever you make an
ability check to persuade, deceive, or intimidate,
you can treat a d20 roll of 7 or lower as an 8.
Additionally you learn the Infernal language.
Infernal Conduit
There is a pool of infernal power within you that
replenishes after you take a long rest. This pool is
represented by dice, starting with 1d10 at 1st level.
Your pool gains dice as shown on the Illrigger table.
With these dice you can transfer hit points between
your illrigger and other targets, healing allies at the
expense of your own health or draining the life force
of enemies to rejuvenate your own vitality.
The Illrigger
Level
Proficiency
Bonus Features
Infernal
Conduit Dice
1st +2 Forked Tongue, Infernal Conduit 1
2nd +2 Fighting Style, Baleful Interdict 1
3rd +2 Hellsight, Diabolic Contract 2
4th +2 Ability Score Improvement 2
5th +3 Extra Attack 3
6th +3 Baleful Interdict Improvement 3
7th +3 Diabolic Contract Improvement 4
8th +3 Ability Score Improvement 4
9th +4 Diabolic Contract Improvement 5
10th +4 Baleful Interdict Improvement 5
11th +4 Improved Infernal Conduit 6
12th +4 Ability Score Improvement 6
13th +5 Diabolic Contract Improvement 7
14th +5 Aura of Despair 7
15th +5 Summon Hell 8
16th +5 Ability Score Improvement 8
17th +6 Diabolic Contract Improvement 9
18th +6 Baleful Interdict Improvement 9
19th +6 Ability Score Improvement 10
20th +6 Infernal Contract Improvement 10
7
As an action, choose a number of dice from your
remaining pool and touch another creature. If they
are unwilling, this is a melee spell attack with which
you are proficient, using Charisma as your spellcasting ability. If you miss, nothing happens—you
do not roll or lose dice from your pool. If you hit,
or if you’re targeting a willing creature, roll the
chosen dice.
The result of your roll is the number of hit
points you transfer. If you’re touching an ally, they
gain that many hit points, ignoring any hit points
in excess of their maximum. You lose hit points
equal to the number of hit points they gained.
If your sacrifice reduces you to 0 hit points, you fall
unconscious.
If you’re touching an enemy, they take necrotic
damage equal to your roll, and you gain that many
hit points. If you would gain hit points in excess of
your maximum, you gain that number of temporary
hit points instead.
Beginning at 11th level, in addition to draining
the life force of an enemy, you can also inflict one
level of exhaustion on them. They may recover this
exhaustion normally. This ability does not work
if the target already has three or more levels of
exhaustion, or if you have no dice left in your pool,
and you cannot choose to inflict exhaustion instead
of draining life.
Fighting Style
At 2nd level, you choose an illrigger fighting style:
Treachery
When you attack an enemy who has none of
your allies adjacent to it, you gain a +3 bonus
to damage rolls.
Bravado
While you are not wearing any armor, your Armor
Class equals 10 + your Dexterity modifier + your
Charisma modifier. You can use a shield and still
gain this benefit.
Schemes
While you wield a melee weapon in one hand
and no other weapons, you can use your reaction
after an adjacent enemy attacks you to move into
any other unoccupied space within five feet of the
1 This is not a reaction, it’s free.
attacking enemy. This movement does not provoke
an opportunity attack.
Lies
When you attack with a two-handed melee weapon,
you can use your Charisma modifier, instead of
your Strength modifier, for both the attack and
damage rolls.
Baleful Interdict
When you reach 2nd level, you learn to use the
power of Hell to censure other creatures. As a bonus
action, you can place a seal on a target you can see
within 30 feet. You can do this a number of times
equal to your Charisma modifier. When you finish
a short or long rest, you regain all your seals.
When you or an ally hits a target you can see with
any seals on it, you can consume the seals to make
the attack deal an extra 2d6 necrotic damage to the
target per seal consumed.1
 If you are within 30 feet
of the target, you regain 2 hit points for each die of
damage your seals deals.
A creature with a seal on them is an interdicted creature.
Seals evaporate if not used after 1 minute. Only
the illrigger who placed the seal knows it’s there;
it appears to the illrigger as a glowing glyph on
the creature’s forehead. If a creature with any of
your seals on it dies, you can move all of its seals to
another creature within range.
When you reach 10th level, you feel your connection to your archdevil increase. Your seals deal an
extra 1d6 damage.
Your seals improve differently based on which
contract you choose. These improvements are listed
under “Diabolic Contract,” below.
Hellsight
When you reach 3rd level, your mastery of deception makes it easy for you to recognize the use of
concealing sorcery. As an action, you extend your
awareness out from you. Until the end of your next
turn, you know the location of creatures within
60 feet using magic to hide or disguise themselves.
You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your Charisma modifier. When you finish a long
rest, you regain your expended uses.
8
Diabolic Contract
When you reach 3rd level, you sign a diabolic contract with your archdevil who welcomes you into the
Order of Desolation. You gain the Invoke Authority
ability and choose either Painkiller (Dispater), Shadowmaster (Moloch), or Architect of Ruin (Asmodeus)
as your archdevil.
Furthermore, you are a noble knight in the lists
of Hell and will be accorded fine treatment and
hospitality anywhere in Hell you travel, even to
cities ruled by enemy archdevils. More cosmopolitan cities in the timescape—like Alloy, the City of
Brass—will also respect your noble rank.
Invoke Authority
You invoke the authority granted you by your archdevil, channelling baleful energy to fuel magical
effects. Each Invoke Authority option provided by
your archdevil explains how to use it.
When you use your Invoke Authority, you choose
which option to use. Once you use this feature, you
must finish a long rest to use it again.
Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th,
16th, and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or you can increase
two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal,
you can’t increase an ability score above 20 using
this feature.
Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead
of once, whenever you take the Attack action on
your turn.
Aura of Despair
Beginning at 14th level, you radiate a magical aura of evil. Whenever a hostile creature
within 15 feet of you makes an attack roll
or a saving throw, it must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from the result.
Summon Hell
Beginning at 15th level, as an action, you can
summon a bone devil to serve you for 1 minute.
The devil appears in an unoccupied space within
30 feet. It is bound to you and must obey your commands to the best of its ability. It acts on the same
initiative that you act on, and may both act and
move on the turn you summon it. If you die or fall
unconscious, the devil returns to Hell. Once you
use this feature, you must wait 1 week before
you can use it again.
9
Diabolic Contracts
The knight who walks the path of Hell may gain
access to the powers of the Illrigger purely through
their own devotion. No oath is necessary, no mentor. A fledgling hellknight might not even be aware
Hell’s Paladins exist.
But acceptance into the Order of Desolation at
3rd level means swearing an oath to a specific Lord
of Hell and this usually requires a senior member
of the order to perform an elaborate ritual. A dedicated knight, however, can attract the attention of
one of the Infernal Dukes by doing deeds of great
treachery on their own.
Through ritual or deed, the young Illrigger eventually finds themselves face-to-face with one of the
Lords of the Seven Cities…and the Contract must
be signed. The contract that binds the itinerant
knight to the Order and adds their names to
the Lists of Hell. A contract signed in blood.
Usually the knight’s.
As intimidating an experience as this
can be, the Lords of Hell are easy masters.
They ask little from their chosen.
Breaches of tenets are overlooked, as long as the knight
sows discord and opposes the
Celestial Host. The Dukes of
the Seven Cities are busy and do not worry overmuch about the daily lives of their Illriggers.
Indeed, this is what the order is for. Advancing
Hell’s agenda, independent of the current political
climate of the Seven Cities.
Painkiller
The heavily armored death troopers of Hell, the Painkillers serve Dispater, leading from the front of every
major infernal battle.
Dispater is the Lord of Dis, the City of War.
When Hell invades another world, Dispater’s army
does the fighting and the dying. His Painkillers
are master strategists who lead from the front,
inspiring terror and awe in their soldiers.
They are full of pride and hubris and present themselves as lordly, often having a
fastidious obsession with their personal
appearance.
The Painkillers are among the most chivalrous of
the illriggers, but theirs is a twisted chivalry. They
will accept and honor a challenge to single combat,
and swiftly punish any who try to interfere. But they
will cheat if losing and toy with an enemy before
finishing them if winning.
In a moment of weakness or desperation, a
ruler in another World might see their army facing certain defeat and call upon Dispater. Seeing
the opportunity to sow strife and discord, Dispater
might send a Painkiller to lead the desperate
lord’s armies.
10
Tenets of Pain
The Painkillers swear an oath to Dispater when they
join the Order of Desolation. The oath commits
them to lead Hell’s armies and wage war against
Good across the timescape.
Lead from the Front. I am at the front of every
battle. I charge in, inspiring my soldiers and causing fear in my enemy. I will not use stealth nor
hide my face. Let them see their doom.
Commander. Wherever I go, I command.
I give orders, I do not take them.
Victory at Any Cost. I respect the enemy leader
and will treat them honorably. But once swords
are drawn I will use every tool and trick in my
arsenal to win, and they should do the same.
Soldiers Die. I care not for the lives of my soldiers, for they exist to serve my victory. They are
resources to be spent.
Contract with Dispater
Dispater’s heavy shock troops must be effective battlefield commanders, and quickly dispatch enemies.
Invoke Authority: Devastator. As an action, you
invoke the authority of Dispater. A number of
allies equal to your Charisma modifier, whom you
can see within 60 feet, and you, may use a reaction to make one weapon attack.
Invoke Authority: Infernal Surge. Upon invoking Dispater’s authority, you gain an extra action
in addition to your normal action and any possible
bonus action.
Bonus Proficiencies
When you choose Dispater as your archdevil,
you gain proficiency with heavy armor.
By the Throat
Starting at 7th level, you can, as an action, place a
seal on an enemy within 30 feet. If they are Large
or smaller, they must make a Wisdom saving throw
(DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma
modifier) or be grappled (escape DC 15), and the
target is restrained until the grapple ends.
Telekinetic Seal
Starting at 9th level, you can, as a reaction to an
enemy moving into a space adjacent to you, place a
seal on them. If you do, they must make a Wisdom
saving throw (DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus
+ your Charisma modifier). If they fail, they are
thrown back 30 feet and knocked prone.
You Die On My Command
Starting at 13th level, when an ally within 30 feet
who can hear you drops to 0 hit points but is not
outright killed, you can use your reaction to shout
an order at them, causing them to drop to 1 hit
point instead. You cannot use this feature again
until you complete a short or long rest.
Steelmind
Starting at 17th level, you gain advantage on Wisdom saving throws against spells and enemy abilities.
Pain Devil
Starting at 20th level, you can use your action to
become a pain devil for 1 minute. Your size becomes
Large. You gain +3 to hit and damage with melee
weapons. You gain 100 temporary hit points.
You emanate an aura of pain that forces every
enemy starting their turn within 20 feet of you to
make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or suffer
4d12 force damage on a failed save (half that on
a successful saving throw) as wounds in their flesh
spontaneously open. Once a creature saves, they are
immune to this ability for 24 hours.
While in this form, your type becomes fiend
(devil) and Hell is your home plane. You cannot use
this feature again until you complete a long rest.
Interdict Improvements
As your Painkiller levels up, Dispater’s interdiction
carries more power.
I Am Death. At 6th level, after placing a seal on
a creature, your attacks against that creature have
advantage until the end of your turn.
Hell’s Fury. At 10th level, the bonus action you use
to place a seal on a creature now also grants you
a weapon attack against them.
Deathstrike. At 18th level, when you consume
a seal after a successful attack roll against an
interdicted creature, you may use your reaction
to make the attack score a critical hit.
11
Shadowmaster
The hidden assassins of Hell, the Shadowmasters
serve Moloch and excel at stealth and disguise.
Moloch is the Lord of Styx, the City of Lies.
He strives to rule Hell through subterfuge, deceit,
and trickery. His illriggers are assassins, striking from the shadows or using deception to earn
high-ranking positions close to powerful rulers.
Many Shadowmasters run networks of spies and
assassins who have no idea of the infernal provenance of their master.
The Shadowmasters are sworn not to
reveal themselves and to take their own lives
before betraying their true allegiance. Many
Shadowmasters have elaborate plans ready for
their own assassination so that, should someone
get close to discovering their true identity, they
will be killed by their own assassins, preserving
the truth. Of course, these killers have no idea
who they were really working for…
Tenets of Shadow
The Shadowmasters swear an oath to Moloch
when they join the Order of Desolation. The oath
commits them to serve Moloch’s foes as allies
before revealing themselves as enemies.
Plans Within Plans. My enemies must never
discover my true goals. I will sacrifice myself to
protect my schemes.
Create Chaos. Disorder is my goal. Where there is
peace, I will create strife. Where there is certainty,
I will create doubt. If there is war, it must
never end.
Power in Patience. I will study my enemy. I will
prepare, research, slowly build trust, so that my
loyalty is unquestioned and any thought of my
betraying my lord unthinkable.
Hesitation Is Failure. I am perfectly willing and
able to kill swiftly and efficiently should the need
arise. I may rely on agents, but when the opportunity presents itself I will kill without hesitation.
12
Contract with Moloch
Moloch’s elite assassins must be able to
survive to get close to their enemies and
quickly eliminate them.
Invoke Authority: Fade. As an action, you can
become invisible and can, as part of this action,
attempt to take the Hide action. The invisibility
ends after 1 minute or if you make an attack or
cast a spell.
Invoke Authority: Moloch’s Blessing. As a bonus
action, you can place all your remaining seals on
a creature.
Flash of Brimstone
As a reaction to placing a seal on a target, you can
teleport to an unoccupied space that you can see
adjacent to the target.
Bonus Proficiencies
When you choose Moloch as your archdevil, you
gain proficiency with Stealth, Acrobatics, and
thieves’ tools.
Dagger Adept
Your training makes you skilled with certain light
weapons. While two-weapon fighting with daggers
and/or sickles, you can add your ability modifier to
the damage of the second attack, and you can draw
or stow two daggers or sickles when you would normally be able to draw or stow only one.
At 5th level, your daggers and sickles do 1d6
damage. At 11th level, your daggers and sickles do
1d8 damage. At 17th level, your daggers and sickles
do 1d10 damage.
Relentless
At 7th level, your movement increases by 10 feet.
Only A Memory
Starting at 9th level, your mastery of shadow grants
you advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks when
taking the Hide action, and Hide becomes a bonus
action for you.
Evasion
Starting at 13th level, when you are prompted to
make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half
damage from an effect, you instead take no damage
if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half
damage if you fail.
Shadowkiller
At 17th level, you gain darkvision and can see
normally in magical darkness. In addition you can
see the exact location of any creatures within 60 feet
using illusion spells to obfuscate their location, such
as blur, mirror image, or invisibility.
Shadowform
Starting at 20th level, as an action, you can become
a greater shadow for 1 minute. You gain damage
resistance to acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder,
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. You
gain Incorporeal Movement and a flying speed of
50 feet. You can move through other creatures and
objects as if they were difficult terrain. You take
5 (1d10) force damage if you end your turn inside an
object. Your weapon attacks deal necrotic damage,
and successful attacks drain 1d4 Strength from the
target. If this drain reduces the target’s Strength to
0, it dies. Otherwise, the drain lasts until the target
finishes a short or long rest. If a non-evil humanoid
dies from this attack, a new shadow rises from the
corpse 1d4 hours later. You cannot use this feature
again until you complete a long rest.
Interdict Improvements
As your shadowmaster levels up, Moloch’s
interdiction carries more power.
Marked for Death. At 6th level, your connection
to Moloch’s power deepens. If you hit an interdicted creature with a melee attack, you can mark
them for death. The target has disadvantage on
attack rolls that do not include you until the end
of its next turn. While that creature is interdicted,
it must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC equal
to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Charisma
modifier) whenever it tries to leave your reach.
On a failure, its speed instead becomes 0 until the
start of its next turn. These effects last until it is no
longer interdicted, you leave its reach, or it leaves
your reach.
He Is the Darkness. At 10th level, while within
10 feet of an interdicted enemy, shadows envelop
you and you gain the benefits of half cover.
Hell’s Assassin. At 18th level, your seals do 3d10
damage each, rather than 3d6.
13
14
Architect of Ruin
Hell’s Architects are cool and calculating arcane
knights who deploy spell, steel, and subterfuge
to win the battle at any cost.
Asmodeus is the Lord of Acheron, the
City of Fear. His illriggers scour the
timescape collecting secrets and spells
designed to deceive and terrify his opponents. The war he fights against the
other Lords of Hell is one of deception
and propaganda.
Acheron’s illriggers work to make
Hell’s enemies seem outnumbered
and outmaneuvered. Half their strategy
involves research and infiltration, the other
half illusion and propaganda. When an Architect
of Ruin finally confronts an enemy, the foe sees the
illrigger’s forces as impossibly powerful, while their
own allies betray them and their armies flee in fear.
Architect of Ruin Spellcasting
Illrigger
Level
Cantrips
Known
Spell Slots per Spell Level
1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th
3rd 2 2 — — — — —
4th 2 3 — — — — —
5th 2 3 2 — — — —
6th 2 3 2 — — — —
7th 2 4 2 2 — — —
8th 3 4 3 2 — — —
9th 3 4 3 2 1 — —
10th 3 4 3 3 2 — —
11th 3 4 3 3 3 1 —
12th 3 4 3 3 3 1 —
13th 3 4 3 3 3 1 —
14th 3 4 3 3 3 1 —
15th 3 4 3 3 3 1 1
16th 3 4 3 3 3 1 1
17th 3 4 3 3 3 1 1
18th 3 4 3 3 3 1 1
19th 3 4 3 3 3 2 1
20th 3 4 3 3 3 2 1
15
Tenets of Ruin
Hell’s Architects swear an oath to Asmodeus when
they join the Order of Desolation. The oath commits them to destroy Asmodeus’ enemies by causing
fear and sowing distrust.
The Battlefield of the Mind. By the time my
armies meet yours, you will be filled with terror
and doubt your own strength. I won’t have to lift a
finger to defeat you.
The Proper Secret. Once I know your secrets,
I know what you fear.
Knowledge Is Power. Lore is as powerful as steel.
I will learn every detail about my enemy so that,
when I strike, I will know their every move. They
will be checkmated before the game even begins.
Perception Is Reality. Illusion is also as powerful
as steel. I will spread so many rumors about my
own powers, your friends will desert you, your
soldiers will quake. So what if none of it’s true?
And some of it is…
Contract with Asmodeus
Asmodeus’ fighting mages must be able to thwart an
enemy’s spells as well as their plans.
Invoke Authority: Veteran of Sorcery. As a reaction to failing a saving throw against a spell, you
can choose to succeed instead.
Invoke Authority: Spellbreaker. You call on
Asmodeus’ authority to protect you from enemy
magic. Any time you are targeted by a magic
missile spell, a line spell, or a spell that requires
a ranged attack roll, roll a d6. On a 1 to 5, you
are unaffected. On a 6, your are unaffected and
the effect is reflected back at the caster as though
it originated from you, turning the caster into
the target.
Spellcasting
When Asmodeus accepts you as an Architect of
Ruin, you gain access to his infernal power and
learn to access divine magic to cast illrigger spells.
Cantrips. You learn two cantrips of your choice
from the illrigger spell list. At 8th level, you learn an
additional cantrip.
Spell Slots. The Architect of Ruin Spellcasting
table shows how many spell slots you have. To cast
one of these spells, you must expend a slot of the
spell’s level or higher. When you finish a long rest,
you regain all expended spell slots.
Spells Known of 1st Level and Higher. You
prepare the list of illrigger spells that are available
for you to cast, choosing from the illrigger spell list.
When you do so, choose a number of illrigger spells
equal to your Charisma modifier + half your illrigger level (rounded down), minimum of one spell.
The spells must be of a level for which you have
spell slots.
For example, if you are a 5th-level illrigger, you
have three 1st-level and two 2nd-level spell slots.
With a Charisma of 14, your list of prepared spells
can include four spells of 1st or 2nd level in any
combination. If you prepare the 1st-level spell Hell’s
lash, you can cast it using a 1st-level or 2nd-level slot.
Casting the spell doesn’t remove it from your list of
prepared spells.
You can change your list of prepared spells when
you finish a long rest. Preparing a new list of illrigger spells requires time spent in prayer and meditation: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell
on your list.
Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for your illrigger spells, since your
power derives from your ability to command the
attention of your patron archdevil. You use your
Charisma whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Charisma
modifier when setting the saving throw DC for an
illrigger spell you cast and when making an attack
roll with one.
Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus
+ your Charisma modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus
+ your Charisma modifier
Spellmaster
Starting at 7th level, you have advantage on Constitution saving throws that you make to maintain
your concentration on a spell.
Instant Illusion
Starting at 9th level, when you place a seal on an
enemy, you can, as a reaction, cast an illusion spell
that normally has a casting time of 1 action.
16
By Will Alone
At 13th level, your illusion spells no longer require
any components. When casting an illusion spell,
there is no indication you are casting the spell. You
can cast illusion spells while blind, while gagged,
and with your hands bound.
Asmoedus’s Blessing
At 17th level, you can, as a reaction to taking
damage, cast fire shield. The shield is always a warm
shield, deals fire damage, and deals 4d8 damage
instead of 2d8. You cannot use this feature again
until you complete a long rest.
Lore Devil
Starting at 20th level, as an action, you can become
a lore devil for 1 minute. You gain three extra seals.
Enemies with seals on them automatically fail their
saving throws against your spells. You emanate an
interference aura, forcing any creature within 60
feet trying to cast a spell to first succeed at a DC 18
Intelligence saving throw or else the spell fails and
they lose the spell slot.
Whenever you use a spell slot to cast a spell, there
is a 25% chance the spell works normally but you do
not lose the spell slot.
While in this form, your type becomes fiend
(devil) and Hell is your home plane. You cannot
use this feature again until you complete a long rest.
At their discretion, your GM may choose one codex
and grant you limited use of one of the abilities from
that codex.
Interdict Improvements
As your Architect of Ruin levels up, Asmodeus’
interdiction carries more power.
Hellmage. Starting at 6th level, when you cast
an illusion spell, you may choose to expend an
unused seal instead of a spell slot.
Submit! Starting at 10th level, as a reaction when
you cast a spell, you can consume a seal on an
interdicted creature to impose disadvantage on
their saving throws against the spell.
Magic Resistance. Starting at 18th level, you gain
advantage on saving throws against spells and
∂magical effects from interdicted creatures.
Illrigger Spell List
*
 indicates a new spell.
†
 indicates a concentration spell.
Italics indicate an illusion spell.
Cantrips
Chill Touch
Dancing Lights
Fire Bolt
Light
Message
Minor Illusion
Ray of Frost
Thaumaturgy
True Strike
1st Level
Charm Person
Color Spray
Command
Comprehend Languages
Detect Magic†
Disguise Self
Hellish Rebuke
Hell’s Lash*†
Shield of Faith†
Silent Image†
Single Combat*
2nd Level
Augury
Blur†
Darkness†
Enthrall
Hold Person†
Invisibility†
Lesser Restoration
Ray of Enfeeblement†
Suggestion†
3rd Level
Dispel Magic
Fear†
Fly†
Major Image†
Phantom Steed
Remove Curse
Revivify
Mote of Hell*†
Tongues
Vampiric Touch†
4th Level
Banishment†
Blight
Death Ward
Dimension Door
Divination
Greater Invisibility†
Hallucinatory Terrain
Phantasmal Killer†
5th Level
Aura of Desecration*†
Contact Other Plane
Dispel Evil and Good†
Dream
Hold Monster†
Mislead†
Wall of Death*†
6th Level
Circle of Death
Mass Suggestion
Planar Ally
Programmed Illusion
17
18
New Illrigger Spells
The following spells are new and available only to
the Architects of Ruin.
Aura of Desecration
5th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Life-defiling energy radiates from you in an aura
with a 30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura
moves with you, centered on you. When a creature
enters the area or starts its turn there, it takes 1d6
necrotic damage and you regain hit points equal to
the damage dealt.
Hell’s Lash
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (the forked tongue of
a serpent)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You produce a whip of red electric energy that
lashes out at a creature within range, creating a
conduit between you and the target. Make a ranged
spell attack against that creature. On a hit, the
target takes 1d10 fire damage, and on each of your
tums for the duration you can use your action to
deal 1d10 fire damage to the target automatically.
The spell ends if you use your action to do anything
else. The spell also ends if the target is ever outside
the spell’s range or if it has total cover from you.
If the target has one of your seals on it, the infernal
whip deals its maximum damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level
above 1st.
Mote of Hell
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of sulfur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You manifest a mote of Hell on the Mundane
World. A 15-foot-radius sphere of darkness, brimstone, and blasting heat arrives, centered on a point
within range and lasting for the duration of the
spell. The cloud of hellfire echoes with the cries of
damned souls that can be heard by anyone within
30 feet of the cloud.
No light, even magical light, can illuminate the
area, and any creatures fully within the area are
blinded. The cloud warps the timescape and the
area is difficult terrain. Any creature that starts its
turn in the area takes 2d6 fire damage. Any creature that ends its turn in the area must succeed on
a Wisdom saving throw or take 2d6 psychic damage
as the voices of the damned crowd their mind.
Devils are immune to this damage, can see
through the darkness, and regain 2d6 hit points if
they start their turn in this area.
19
Single Combat
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Up to 1 minute
You offer a creature a challenge they might not
be able to resist. If you have no allies adjacent to
you, choose one creature within range who can see
and hear you. They must make a Charisma saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature falls for your
ruse and must fight you. For the duration, they
have disadvantage on attacks that do not include
you, and must succeed on a Charisma save against
your spellcasting DC each time they try to move
away from you.
This spell ends if you attack any other creature, if
you cast a spell that doesn’t include the creature as a
target, if an ally damages the target or targets them
with a spell, or if you end your turn more than 30
feet away from the target. The spell also ends if any
of your allies end their turn adjacent to you.
Wall of Death
5th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a small piece of phosphorus)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a wall of necrotic energy on a solid
surface within range. You can make a wall up to
60 feet long, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick, or can
make a ringed wall up to 20 feet in diameter, 20
feet high, and 1 foot thick. The wall is opaque and
lasts for the duration. When the wall appears, each
creature within its area must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes
5d8 necrotic damage and the first time it drops
to 0 hit points within the next minute, it instantly
fails a death saving throw; on a successful save, it
takes half as much damage without the other effect.
You regain hit points equal to half the amount of
necrotic damage dealt. One side of the wall, selected
by you when you cast this spell, deals 5d8 necrotic
damage to each creature that ends its turn within 10
feet of that side or inside the wall. A creature takes
the same damage when it enters the wall for the first
time on a turn or ends its turn there. The other side
of the wall deals no damage.
20
Lady Dazran
The Painkiller Lady Dazran could serve as an ally
or enemy for the characters in your game. She is a
ruthless, efficient killing machine. When combat
begins, Lady Dazran targets an enemy in a healing
or leadership role with By the Throat and Baleful
Interdict and moves within 5 feet of it, positioning
herself among as many enemies as possible to make
maximum use of her Aura of Despair. If she needs
allies, she next uses Summon Hell and Baleful Interdict to place another seal on the same target before
focusing all her greatsword attacks on her chosen
foe (and ordering her bone devil to do the same if
summoned). Whenever she gets the chance to place
or consume a seal on her target, she takes it, focused
on killing that creature before moving on to the next.
If other enemies attempt to intervene as Lady Dazran slaughters one of their own, she uses Telepathic
Seal to send the sniveling welp away and wait its turn
for her blade. When Lady Dazran’s hit points drop
to 70 or fewer, she uses Infernal Conduit on a fresh
target to regain as many hit points as possible.
of her allies hits a target with at least one seal with
a melee attack, she can consume the seals to deal an
extra 10 (3d6) necrotic damage per seal consumed.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. Dazran makes three melee weapon
attacks or two ranged weapon attacks.
Javelin. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit,
reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d6 +
5) piercing damage.
Steel Devil Rib Greatsword. Melee Weapon Attack:
+9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5)
slashing damage.
Infernal Conduit (1/Day). Melee Spell Attack: +9 to
hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 44 (8d10) necrotic
damage, and Dazran regains hit points equal to the
damage taken. If fully healed, Dazran gains the excess
as temporary hit points.
By the Throat. Dazran uses Baleful Interdict to place
a seal on a Large or smaller creature. The target must
succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be
grappled (escape DC 15). While grappled, the target
is restrained.
Hellsight (5/Day). Until the end of her next turn,
Dazran knows the location of any creature within
60 feet of her using magic to disguise or hide itself.
Summon Hell (1/Week). Dazran summons a bone
devil in an unoccupied space that she can see within
30 feet of her. The devil follows her commands and
acts immediately after her in the initiative order. The
devil disappears when it drops to 0 hit points, Dazran
dies or becomes unconscious, or 1 minute after it
is summoned.
REACTIONS
Telepathic Seal. When a creature moves within
5 feet of Dazran, she can use Baleful Interdict to place
a seal on it. The target must succeed on a DC 17
Wisdom saving throw or be pushed 30 feet away from
Dazran and knocked prone.
You Die on My Command (1/Short or Long Rest).
When a creature that can hear Dazran within 30 feet
of her drops to 0 hit points, Dazran shouts a command
and the creature drops to 1 hit point instead.
Lady Dazran
Medium humanoid (human), lawful evil
Armor Class 18 (plate)
Hit Points 153 (18d8 + 72)
Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
20 (+5) 10 (+0) 18 (+4) 13 (+1) 15 (+2) 20 (+5)
Saving Throws Con +8, Cha +9
Skills Arcana +5, Athletics +9, Intimidation +9,
Religion +5
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Infernal
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP) Proficiency Bonus +4
Aura of Despair. Whenever a creature Dazran
chooses within 15 feet of her makes an attack roll or
saving throw, that creature must subtract 1d4 from the
result of the attack or save.
Baleful Interdict (5/Short or Long Rest). As a
bonus action, Dazran places a seal on a creature within
30 feet of her that she can see. When Dazran or one
21
Retainers
Rules for retainers appear in the “Followers” section of Strongholds & Followers. Using those rules,
you can add the following Illrigger retainers to
your game!
Agent (Shadowmaster)
Armor Light (AC 13)
Primary Ability Dexterity, Charisma
Saves Constitution, Charisma
Skills Acrobatics, Stealth, Deception
Signature Action Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit,
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d4 + 5) piercing damage
3rd Level Special Action (3/Day, Reaction): Shadow
Gate. When the Agent’s leader makes an attack against
a target the Agent can see within 60 feet, the agent
teleports into an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the
target and grants the leader advantage on the attack roll.
5th Level Special Action (1/Day): All Out. The
Agent makes a signature attack then places seals on a
creature they can see within 30 feet of them. The seals
are consumed on the next successful attack against
the target, and the target takes an additional 21 (6d6)
necrotic damage.
7th Level Special Action (3/day): Seal Fate. The agent
makes two signature action attacks against a creature. If
one or both attacks hit, the creature’s speed is reduced
to 0 and they have disadvantage on attack rolls that don’t
include the agent until the end of the agent’s next turn.
Deceiver (Architect of Ruin)
Armor Medium (AC 15)
Primary Ability Charisma
Saves Constitution, Charisma
Skills Arcana, Persuasion, Deception
Signature Action Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit,
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) slashing damage
3rd Level Special Action (3/Day): Hell’s lash
5th Level Special Action (1/Day): Armor of Deception.
The Deceiver weaves a web of frightening illusions that last
for 1 minute around another creature the deceiver can
see. Creatures who take the attack action against the target
while the illusions last must make a Wisdom saving throw
or be frightened until the end of their next turn. Creatures
who make the save are immune to this effect for 24 hours.
7th Level Special Action (1/Day): mote of Hell
Tyrant (Painkiller)
Armor Heavy (AC 18)
Primary Ability Strength, Charisma
Saves Constitution, Charisma
Skills Athletics, Intimidation
Signature Action Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit,
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage
3rd Level Special Action (3/Day, Bonus Action): Shift
Ranks. The Tyrant makes a signature attack and allows
up to three allies within 30 feet of the Tyrant that can
hear the Tyrant to move up to 10 feet without provoking
opportunity attacks.
5th Level Special Action (1/Day): Devastation.
The Tyrant makes two signature attacks and allows up to
three allies within 30 feet of the tyrant that can hear the
Tyrant to use their reaction to make one weapon attack.
7th Level Special Action (1/Day): Choke. The Tyrant
makes a signature attack and uses magic to choke a
creature within 30 feet of the tyrant that the Tyrant can
see. The choked target must make a Wisdom saving
throw or be grappled, and the target is restrained
until the grapple ends.