Monster Hunter
“Being a monster hunter was not something I
was born into. My father told me to go out
and get a trade… but I don’t think this is
what he had in mind…”
- Jürgen of the Black Arrow
Monster hunters are skilled professionals,
each specializing in identifying, seeking, and
killing different types of creatures. Therefore,
each monster hunter also specializes in
different methods for doing so. While some
hunters don heavy armor and carry shields to
protect against crushing jaws and scything
claws, others prefer to remain light and agile
to keep distance between themselves and
their quarry.
Quick Build
You can make a monster hunter quickly by
following these suggestions. First, make
Strength or Dexterity your highest ability
score, depending on whether you want to
focus on melee weapons or on archery (or
finesse weapons). Your next-highest score
should be Intelligence.
Second, choose a background that reflects
your training and the monsters you specialize
in hunting, or alternatively your background
could reflect your character’s life before they
fell into the monster hunting profession.
If you are using advanced backgrounds from
Grim Hollow: The Campaign Guide, the Beast
Hunter profession from the Outlander
background is perfect for any lifelong monster
hunter characters.
The Monster Hunter
Level
Proficiency
Bonus Features
1st +2 Fighting Style, Monster Grimoire
2nd +2 Hunter’s Instincts
3rd +2 Hunting Guild
4th +2 Ability Score Improvement
5th +3 Extra Attack, Grave Strike
6th +3 Monster Grimoire Improvement
7th +3 Hunting Guild feature
8th +3 Ability Score Improvement
9th +4 Recognised Professional
10th +4 Hunting Guild feature
11th +4 Rapid Grave Strike
12th +4 Ability Score Improvement
13th +5 Monster Grimoire Improvement,
Knowledgeable Defence
14th +5 Enhanced Hunters Instincts
15th +5 Hunting Guild feature
16th +5 Ability Score Improvement
17th +6 Monster Grimoire Improvement
18th +6 Hunting Guild feature
19th +6 Ability Score Improvement
20th +6 Grave Execution
Class Features
As a monster hunter, you gain the following
class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d10 per monster hunter level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution
modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your
constitution modifier per monster hunter
level after 1st.
Proficiencies
Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields
Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Strength, Dexterity
Skills: Choose two skills from Athletics,
This document is playtest material for the
new Grim Hollow monster hunter class
designed for 5th Edition. The class
features herein are not finalised and
subject to change in future iterations of
the monster hunter.
If you would like to playtest the monster
hunter and provide your feedback, please
use the following link to fill out the survey.
Link to Playtest Survey
History, Investigation, Medicine, Nature,
Perception, Religion, and Survival
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in
addition to the equipment granted by your
background:
• (a) scale mail or (b) leather armour
• (a) a martial weapon and a shield or
(b) two martial weapons
• (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b)
two simple weapons
• (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an
explorer’s pack
Fighting Style
You adopt a particular style of fighting as your
specialty. Choose one of the following
options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option
more than once, even if you later get to
choose again.
Archery
You gain +2 bonus to attack rolls you make
with ranged weapons.
Duelling
When you are wielding a melee weapon in
one hand and no other weapons, you gain a
+2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.
Great Weapon Fighting
When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an
attack you make with a melee weapon that
you are wielding with two hands, you can
reroll the die and must use the new roll, even
if the new roll is a 1 or a 2. The weapon must
have the two-handed or versatile property for
you to gain this benefit.
Two-Weapon Fighting
When you engage in two-weapon fighting,
you can add your ability modifier to the
damage of the second attack.
Monster Grimoire
Each monster hunter carries with them a
grimoire of lore and research about the
creatures they hunt.
Choose two types of monsters that you are
specialized in hunting from the following list:
aberrations, beasts, constructs, dragons,
elementals, fey, fiends, giants, monstrosities,
oozes, plants, undead, or humanoids (shape
changers).
You add your proficiency bonus to any
Intelligence and Wisdom checks you make
that relate to the monsters in your grimoire.
For example, an Intelligence (History) check to
recall lore about a creature you’re
investigating, or a Wisdom (Medicine) check
to identify claw marks left on a corpse. If you
are already proficient in a skill when asked to
make an ability check relating to the monsters
in your grimoire, you are treated as having
expertise for the purposes of that ability
check and double your proficiency bonus
instead.
When you gain this feature, you also learn
one language of your choice that is spoken by
one of the monster types in your grimoire.
Other class features you gain also refer to the
monsters in your grimoire.
A monster hunter’s grimoire is an object that
is entirely unique to them. It may be a leather
tome recovered from a dusty library with
notes made in the margins, a frayed journal
inherited from a previous hunter, or a
precious stone with a communing spirit
trapped within. If a monster hunter ever loses
their grimoire, they have usually retained
enough of the knowledge to not suffer any
immediate disadvantages. However, they
cannot further their research without one and
therefore cannot take another monster
hunter level at level up until a lost grimoire
has been replaced. A grimoire can be
recreated by spending 8 hours and 50 gp
worth of materials such as pages, inks, or
components to cast a ritual.
Hunter’s Instincts
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to analyze a
creature and discern specific information
about it. As a bonus action, choose one
creature you can see within 60 feet of you,
and make an Intelligence (Investigation) check
where the DC equals 5 + the creature’s CR.
The check is automatically successful against
creatures with a CR less than 1. If you are
successful, you learn one of the following
pieces of information.
• The creature’s type.
• The creature’s armor class.
• Any damage resistances or
immunities the creature has.
• Any damage vulnerabilities the
creature has.
If you spend at least 1 minute observing or
interacting with the target creature outside of
combat, you can learn the first two pieces of
information automatically, and the second
two with a single Intelligence (Investigation)
check of the same DC as described above.
If the creature is concealing any of these
pieces of information with magic, such as an
illusion, you do not learn that piece of
information with a successful ability check but
instead become aware that the information is
being concealed.
Hunting Guild
At 3rd level, you choose a hunting guild that
best reflects the techniques you employ in
tracking and slaying monsters. Choose
between the Carver Guild or the Trapper
Guild, both detailed below. The guild you
choose grants you features at 3rd level and
again at 7th, 10th, 15th and 18th level.
Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th,
12th, 16th, and 19th level, you can increase
one ability score of your choice by 2, or you
can increase two ability scores of your choice
by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability
score above 20 using this feature.
Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice,
instead of once, whenever you take the
Attack action on your turn.
Grave Strike
When you reach 5th level, such is your
learning in the weaknesses of monsters that
you know patience and precision can often
deal more damage than rapid strikes.
You can use an action on your turn to perform
a grave strike, which is a single weapon
attack. When doing so your Intelligence
modifier is added to the attack roll and if the
attack hits the weapon deals additional
damage equal to 1d8 times your Intelligence
modifier (minimum of 1d8).
A grave strike can also be performed as a
reaction such as a readied action or an
opportunity attack. You do not lose a use of
this ability if the readied action is not
performed.
You may use this ability a number of times
equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum
of one) and regain all expended uses when
you finish a short or long rest.
Monster Grimoire
Improvement
Once you reach 6th level, you have gathered
enough information among the monsters
you’ve slain to add another section to your
Monster Grimoire.
You may select a new type of monster that
you are specialized in hunting from the
following list: aberrations, beasts, constructs,
dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, giants,
monstrosities, oozes, plants, undead, or
humanoids (shape changers). You may not
choose a monster type you have chosen
before. All the benefits you gain from your
monster grimoire now also apply to this new
creature type.
Additionally, whenever you are making a
weapon attack against a creature written
about in your monster grimoire, you score a
critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20.
Recognized Professional
By 9th level, stories of your expertise in
hunting monsters have spread and you have
become a recognized professional in your
field. You have advantage on Charisma checks
against non-hostile creatures when plying
your trade, such as when negotiating payment
for a quest, asking for information about a
monster, or selling monstersalvage.
Rapid Grave Strike
Once you reach 11th level, you are an expert
at striking at the weaknesses of your prey. All
your weapon attacks now deal an extra 1d8 of
damage. You may also now choose to use
Grave Strike as part of any Attack action
instead of taking an entire action on its own.
Monster Grimoire
Improvement
By reaching 13th level, you have gathered
enough information among the monsters
you’ve slain to add another section to your
Monster Grimoire.
You may select a new type of monster that
you are specialized in hunting from the
following list: aberrations, beasts, constructs,
dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, giants,
monstrosities, oozes, plants, undead, or
humanoids (shape changers). You may not
choose a monster type you have chosen
before. All the benefits you gain from your
monster grimoire now also apply to this new
creature type.
Knowledgeable Defence
By 13th level, you have studied the ways in
which your foes attack and trained your body
and mind to resist them. You are considered
proficient with any saving throw made against
a creature written about in your Monster
Grimoire. If you are already proficient when
asked to make the saving throw, you may add
your proficiency bonus a second time.
Enhanced Hunter’s
Instincts
Beginning at 14th level, you have honed your
hunter’s instincts to the point of only needing
clues a creature has left behind to learn
information about them. These clues could
include tracks or claw marks, standing inside
the monster’s lair, the remains of one of their
victims, or even an accurate description given
by a witness.
As an action you can make an Intelligence
(Investigation) check while considering one of
these clues. The DC equals 10 + the CR of the
creature who left the clue, the check
automatically successful against creatures
with a CR less than 1. If you are successful,
you learn one of the following pieces of
information.
• The creature’s type.
• The creature’s armor class.
• Any damage resistances or
immunities the creature has.
• Any damage vulnerabilities the
creature has.
If the clue is misleading in any way, such as
being an illusion or an inaccurate witness
account, you do not learn any information
with a successful ability check but instead
become aware that the clue is misleading.
Monster Grimoire
Improvement
At 17th level you have gathered enough
information among the monsters you’ve slain
to add a final section to your Monster
Grimoire.
You may select a new type of monster that
you are specialized in hunting from the
following list: aberrations, beasts, constructs,
dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, giants,
monstrosities, oozes, plants, undead, or
humanoids (shape changers). You may not
choose a monster type you have chosen
before. All the benefits you gain from your
monster grimoire now also apply to this new
creature type.
Grave Execution
At 20th level if a creature from a type written
about in your Monster Grimoire has 50 hit
points or less remaining when you hit it with a
Grave Strike, you can force the target to make
a Constitution saving throw. On a failure the
creature is immediately reduced to 0 hit
points, while on a success the Grave Strike
deals its damage as normal.
Calculate the save DC as follows:
DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your
Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice)
Hunting Guilds
Hunting guilds are groups of monster slayers
who use the same teachings and techniques.
Some are formally organised like a mercenary
company, while others are not associated but
have inherited similar knowledge. Reaching
3rd level represents a monster hunter’s
readiness to deploy these specialized tactics
after considerable study and practice.
Carver Guild
Since the beginning of time, monsters were
fought by those who were brave enough to
get close to danger and glare into its ferocious
eyes. The folk that survived were those smart
enough to arm themselves properly and know
precisely where to strike for the quickest kill.
Carvers are the monster hunters that are
typically called upon when immediate danger
threatens a settlement and action is in short
supply. Carvers stride unflinchingly toward
death, armed with years of training and
knowledge that is both researched and passed
down from those before them.
Equipped for Battle
When you choose this guild at 3rd level, you
gain proficiency with heavy armor.
Close Quarters
Starting at 3rd level, your resolve allows you
to keep the pressure on your target while
mitigating the risk to yourself. Whenever you
hit a creature with a melee weapon attack
you can mark them until the start of your next
turn. While creatures that are marked are
adjacent to you, they have disadvantage on
attack rolls against you.
True Grit
Starting at 3rd level, you are immune to being
frightened by creature types written about in
your grimoire.
Improved Salvage
When you reach 7th level, you have learned
every technique integral to efficiently carving
the salvage from monster remains. You have
advantage on ability checks made to harvest
salvage, and whenever possible you collect
twice as much.
Grave Riposte
By 10th level you have learned to strike back
and your foes who provide you an opening. If
a creature you have marked within melee
range misses you with an attack or attacks a
creature other than you, you may use your
reaction to immediately make a melee
weapon attack or Grave Strike against them.
Terror of Terrors
By 15th level your reputation has become
such that monsters who prey on the fearful
have come to fear you. When you mark a
creature using a Grave Strike attack, you can
force the target to succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or become frightened of you
until the end of your next turn.
The saving throw DC is calculated as follows:
DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your
Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice)
Tireless Hunter
By 18th level, if you have no uses of Grave
Strike remaining when you roll initiative, you
gain one use of Grave Strike.
Trapper Guild
Legends say that the founding members of
the Trapper Guild were regular game hunters
who had grown bored of the common elk and
dreamed of taking down bigger game.
Trappers take pride in their kills and the
ingenuity exhibited when a trap works
perfectly.
The legacy of the Trapper Guild is a consistent
testament to the benefits of lying-in wait. The
element of surprise is paramount to the
Trapper, whose kit can flourish before the
hunter and monster even meet. Preparation is
key, and the resourceful Trapper has devices
to overcome even the strongest foes.
Bonus Proficiency
When you choose this guild at 3rd level, you
gain proficiency in the Stealth skill.
Trapper’s Tools
Starting at 3rd level, you gain proficiency with
Tinker’s tools and can use these to create
gadgets and mechanisms that help you during
the hunt. Whenever you finish a long rest, you
can use your Tinker’s tools to craft two of the
following trapper’s tools described below.
You can also spend 1 hour and 20 gold pieces
worth of additional resources (such as
equipment or monster salvage) to use your
Tinker’s tools to craft a single trapper tool.
The time spent must be uninterrupted and
can be during a short rest.
Some trapper’s tools allow your target to
make an ability check or saving throw to resist
the tool’s effects. The saving throw DC is
calculated as follows:
Trapper's tool Save DC = 8 + your proficiency
bonus + your Intelligence Modifier
Elemental Ammunition
The head of an arrow or bolt is tipped with
poison, loaded with an acid vial, or dipped in
flammable oil. You create a single piece of
ammunition that can be fired from either a
bow or crossbow as part of an attack action. If
that piece of ammunition hits, it inflicts three
times the weapon’s normal damage dice. The
damage type can be either acid, fire, lightning,
poison, or thunder, chosen when the
ammunition is crafted.
A piece of elemental ammo breaks after use
and cannot be recovered.
Push Plate
A chest guard, filled with compressed air or
loaded with springs. It can be worn over
clothing and armor and takes the same time
to don and doff as light armor. If the wearer is
hit by a melee attack, it can use its reaction to
activate the push plate. If the wearer is larger
than the creature who attacked it, the
creature will be pushed back up to 20 feet. If
the creature is the same size or larger than
the wearer, the wearer will be pushed back up
to 20 feet, instead.
The push plate is destroyed after a single use.
Scorpion Anchor
This weapon is intended to keep flying foes
anchored to the ground or stop monsters
from fleeing. The scorpion anchor can be fired
from either a bow or crossbow as part of an
attack action. A creature hit by the attack
becomes grappled, ending the effect if it uses
an action on its turn to succeed on a Dexterity
(Acrobatics) or Strength (Athletics) check.
A scorpion anchor is destroyed after use and
cannot be recovered.
Silver Bomb
Silver bombs are used when hunting creatures
that are resilient to mortal weapons. As a
bonus action on your turn, you can throw the
silver bomb at a point that you can see within
60 feet, creating a 20-foot-radius sphere
centred on that point. The sphere spreads
around corners, and its area is lightly
obscured. It lasts for 1 minute or until a wind
of moderate or greater speed (at least 10
miles per hour) disperses it. While inside the
sphere, any aberration, elemental, fey, fiend,
humanoid, monstrosity or undead loses any
resistances or immunities that it has to
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage.
A silver bomb is destroyed after a single use.
Terrain Cloak
A cloak composed of or disguised with local
materials, allowing the wearer to conceal
themselves within the environment. Terrain
cloaks can be worn over light and medium
armor and are donned and doffed with the
speed of light armor.
The wearer of a terrain cloak is always lightly
obscured. The wearer also receives advantage
on stealth checks that rely on sight and can
attempt to hide even if only lightly obscured
by their terrain cloak.
Terrain cloaks tend not to last as the dust
wears off and the dead branches break or
whither. Terrain cloaks fall apart after 24
hours.
Weretrap
A strong staggering trap that is triggered
when its fragile exterior is broken. You can
use an action to set the trap on the ground in
a space adjacent to you. Weretraps placed on
the ground are invisible to other creatures
unless they succeed a Wisdom (Perception)
check. A creature that steps on the weretrap
must succeed a Dexterity saving throw or take
3d10 bludgeoning damage and be knocked
prone.
The weretrap can also be used as a ranged
weapon with the finesse and thrown
property. It has a short range of 20 feet and a
long range of 60 feet. On a successful hit, the
weretrap deals 3d10 bludgeoning damage and
the target is knocked prone.
The weretrap is destroyed after it is triggered
or thrown, regardless of whether it was
successful or not.
Predatory Awareness
Starting at 3rd level, you can’t be surprised by
creature types written about in your grimoire
while you are conscious.
Improved Crafting
When you reach 7th level, you better
understand the nature of salvage gathered
from monsters and how to craft those
materials more efficiently. Whenever you
want to craft an item from salvage, you may
do so with half the amount of salvage
necessary and in half the time. If it is not
possible to craft the item with half the
amount of salvage (such as creating a mace of
disruption from the skull of a memori lich),
you may half one other required cost instead.
Ambusher’s Advantage
Starting at 10th level you have become a
ferocious ambusher. You have a bonus to your
initiative rolls equal to your Intelligence
modifier. If you use Grave Strike against a
creature that has not acted in combat yet, you
can use your bonus action to make a single
weapon attack as well.
Monster Hide Armor
At 15th level you have learned to modify a set
of light or medium armor by crafting dragon
scales, werewolf hide, troll leather, or similar
monster salvage onto the armor. The armor
takes on the appearance of your choice,
reflecting the salvage it is made from. It is
assumed you have been working on this
armor during your down time, however a final
4 hours of uninterrupted work with your
Tinker’s tools and a suit of light or medium
armor is required to complete it.
Your Monster Hide Armor has the same
properties as the light or medium armor it is
made from plus two additional features you
choose from the following list.
Damage Resistance
The monster hide used to craft your armor
transfers its resistances. Choose 3 damage
types when you craft the armor. You have
resistance to these damage types while
wearing your armor.
Elemental Charge
Your armor may be embedded with a
construct’s gemstone or infused with the
power of an elemental. When you craft your
armor, you imbue it with one of the following
damage types: acid, cold, fire, lightning,
poison, or thunder. Whenever you make a
weapon attack, you may choose for the
damage to be the weapon’s normal damage
type or your armor’s imbued damage type.
Hardened Defense
Hardened scales or magical pelt make your
armor difficult to pierce. You have a +2 bonus
to AC while wearing this armor.
Regeneration
Possibly made from troll hide or infused with
vampire blood, while wearing your armor you
can use a bonus action to regain hit points
equal to 1 hit dice plus your Constitution
modifier. You may do this 6 times, regaining
the ability to do so after completing a short or
long rest. Using this ability does not spend a
hit dice.
Stealthy
Your armor is draped with a shadowy cloak or
made from hide as light as a feather. Your
armor does not impose disadvantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks even if it would
normally. While wearing your armor you have
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made
to hide, and Wisdom (Perception) checks
made to perceive you have disadvantage.
Phase Leap
You may have powdered your armor with fey
dust or sewn it with the pelt of a phase
shifting monstrosity. You can use a bonus
action on your turn to teleport up to 60 feet
to an unoccupied space you can see. You may
do this up to 3 times, regaining the ability to
do so after a short or long rest.
You can only have a single monster hide
armor constructed at a time. You can change
the features of your current armor with 4
hours of uninterrupted work using your
Tinker’s tools. If you craft a new suit using 8
hours of uninterrupted work with your
Tinker’s tools and a suit of light or medium
armor, it is assumed the old armor has
become too damaged to function or you have
salvaged parts from it to craft the new one.
Rapid Tinkerer
When you reach 18th level you have become
capable of crafting trapper tools at a much
faster rate. When you finish a long rest, you
can now craft three trapper’s tools instead of
two.
Devourer Guild
Folk in Etharis do not always speak highly of
monster hunters, and many consider them to
be just as depraved and inhuman as the evils
they are sent to vanquish. Many of the
appalling tales told about monster hunters
can be attributed to the Devourer Guild,
accused of being monstrous cannibals
themselves.
The truth is barely any better. Devourer’s
have spent their days consuming the flesh and
vitae of the monsters they have slain, and
over time their metabolism has changed to
tolerate this disgusting practice. Devourers
adopt mutations shortly after consuming the
substance their prey is made from.
Transmutating Metabolism
When you choose this guild at 3rd level, you
gain the ability to consume portions from
monster remains which cause your body to
adopt powerful and frightening new
mutations.
Salvaging Portions
A single portion can be salvaged from the
physical remains of any creature. Unless it is
consumed a portion lasts for 24 hours, before
it either rots or its innate magic dissipates,
and it no longer has any effect.
Consuming Portions
Whenever you spend a bonus action to
consume a portion, you magically gain a
benefit depending on the creature’s type. You
can consume a number of portions up to 1 +
your Constitution modifier (minimum of 1).
Each portion you consume after that causes
you to gain a level of exhaustion. When you
finish a long rest, you regain the ability to
safely consume portions. You can benefit
from multiple portions at the same time but
consuming more than one portion from the
same monster type provides no additional
effects.
If a portion effect enables you to cast a spell,
Intelligence becomes your spellcasting ability.
Portions Effects
Aberrations
For the next hour you can speak telepathically
to any creature you are aware of within 60
feet of you. Additionally, during that time you
have resistance to psychic damage.
Beasts
You regain hit points equal to 2d8 + your
monster hunter level.
Celestials
For the next hour you automatically know
whenever you are being lied to. Additionally,
once during that same period you can cast the
branding smite spell innately.
Constructs
For the next ten minutes, you have resistance
to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage
from non-magical attacks not made with
adamantine weapons.
Dragons
For the next ten minutes, you grow leathery
wings from your back which give you a flying
speed of 50 feet.
Elementals
Choose one of the following damage types:
acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder. For the next
minute whenever you take damage of that
type, instead of losing hit points you instead
gain hit points equal to the amount of damage
that would be taken.
Fey
Once within the next ten minutes you can
innately cast the invisibility spell requiring no
material components.
Fiends
Once within the next ten minutes you can
innately cast the charm person spell or the
suggestion spell requiring no material
components. This effect ends once you have
cast either of these spells.
Giants
For the next minute you gain advantage on all
Strength based ability checks and saving
throws. You also add your Strength score to
the damage twice for any Strength based
weapon attacks you make.
Humanoids (Shape Changer)
For the next hour you can magically
polymorph your physical appearance. This
functions similarly to the disguise self spell but
with two key differences. Firstly, you cannot
change the appearance of your clothing,
weapons, or equipment. However, your
disguise is physical in nature and stands up to
physical inspection.
Monstrosities
For the next hour you gain natural weapons
such as claws and fangs. Whenever you make
an unarmed strike, you deal 1d6 slashing
damage instead of the normal amount. You
can also make an unarmed strike as a bonus
action on each of your turns.
Oozes
For the next hour you can move through any
space wide enough for a creature one size
smaller than you without squeezing.
Additionally, during that same period you can
choose to deal acid damage with any weapon
attack you make as your saliva and blood
become corrosive to others.
Plants
For the next ten minutes you can innately cast
the spike growth spell requiring no material
components.
Undead
For the next minute whenever you inflict
damage to a creature with a weapon attack,
you gain temporary hit points equal to half
the damage dealt.
Inherent Mutation
When you reach 7th level, your body begins
to grow new permanent mutations because of
your continued consumption of monsters.
Choose two of the following mutations that
become permanent for you.
Metabolized Constitution
You have advantage on saving throws against
poison, and you have resistance against
poison damage. If you already have or gain a
similar ability due to another magic item,
class, or racial trait (such as Dwarvern
Resilience) you instead become immune to
poison damage and immune to the poisoned
condition.
Obsessive Consumption
You can now consume a number of portions
up to 2 + your Constitution modifier
(minimum of 2) before taking any levels of
exhaustion.
Permanent Scales
When you are not wearing armor, your AC
equals 13 + your Dexterity modifier.
Preternatural Reflexes
You can take the Dash or Disengage action as
a bonus action on your turn.
Rapid Recovery
You can use your action to spend a single Hit
Dice, recovering hit points equal to the result
+ your Constitution modifier.
Terrifying Appearance
Your appearance becomes frightening to
others to behold. You gain proficiency in the
Intimidation skill. If you are already proficient
in this skill you instead gain expertise,
doubling your proficiency bonus whenever
you make a Charisma (Intimidation) check.
Wall Crawler
You have a climbing speed equal to your
movement speed, and can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings,
without needing to make an ability check.
Wolfen Senses
You have advantage on Intelligence
(Investigation) checks and Wisdom
(Perception) checks that rely on hearing or
smell.
Alchemical Decoctions
At 10th level, you gain proficiency with
Alchemist’s supplies.
You can spend 1 hour and 20 gold pieces
worth of alchemical ingredients (such as
special herbs or monster salvage) to use your
Alchemist’s supplies to convert a single
portion into a decoction.
A decoction is a magic potion that functions
exactly like a portion but has no limit on how
long it lasts.
Creatures other than you can consume 1
decoction, gaining a level of exhaustion for
each additional decoction they consume after
that. After finishing a long rest, a creature
regains the ability to safely consume a single
decoction.
If a decoction enables a creature other than
you to cast a spell, they may use their own
spellcasting ability to do so. Otherwise they
must use Constitution as their spellcasting
ability if they do not already have the ability
to cast a spell.
Monstrous Gluttony
When you reach 15th level you have become
so ravenous for the power monsters give you
that you are willing to feast on their still living
flesh. You may spend one use of Grave Strike
to instead make a special melee weapon
attack using either Strength or Dexterity. The
attack deals 1d6 piercing damage plus 1d8
force damage times your Intelligence modifier
(minimum 1d8).
If this attack is successful, after dealing
damage you instantly count as having
consumed a portion of the same creature
type as the target of the attack.
Acquired Taste
At 18th level your hunger for monster
portions has increased as has your capacity to
safely devour them. You can now consume 1
additional portion or decoction before gaining
a level of exhaustion between long rests