Pugilist
Arrows rain down around her as she runs towards the
hobgoblins. Desperate to close the distance, the half-orc
fights through the sting of a dozen cuts to reach her foes.
The pain only makes her stronger. As she descends on
the snarling pack she swings wildly, knocking several
hobgoblins off their feet and sending the rest scattering
before her.
The human braces himself for the impact as the
orc rushes him. Then the monster makes a mistake,
telegraphing its next move, and that’s all the opening the
human needs. He ducks beneath the orc’s wide swing then
raises both hands high above his head and brings them
down on the orc’s back, forcing the brute to the ground.
The dwarf smiles broadly and chuckles as the petty
noble raises his hand to strike him for the impudent
remark. Quick as a flash, the dwarf shatters the bottle
in his hand against the bar and brandishes it before the
noble. The young dandy flinches, stumbles backward,
and runs away as the dwarf turns back to the bar to
order another round.
Wherever they come from, pugilists live a rough and
tumble life that leaves them full of determination and
reckless, either from overconfidence or desperation. In
a fight they can channel this strength of character to dig
deep and fight off foes with greater strength of numbers,
arms, or armor than anyone else would think possible.
Swagger for Days
Pugilists unconsciously tap into their own inner strength
in the form of moxie. This is not an esoteric or mystical
energy that flows through the multiverse, but the result
of determination forged over a lifetime of hardship with
a never-say-die attitude. You can teach someone how
to fight but you could never teach someone how to be
a pugilist. The secret of mastering moxie doesn’t come
from disciplined study or rigorous training, it comes
from years of wanting and needing.
Life on the Street
Every city in the worlds of D&D has its back alleys, its
underground fighting rackets, its ghettos. The pugilists
who live in these places don’t have time to consider the
lofty ideals of philosophy or ponder the mysteries of the
universe. The pugilists, growing up on the wrong side of
the tracks, spend all their time chasing down their next
meal or, if they’re fortunate enough to have that, their
next drink, bedfellow, or flophouse.
4
Classes | Pugilist
For pugilists, becoming an adventurer might be the
only way out of whatever miserable situation they’ve
been stuck in since infancy. For others, getting lost out
in the world is an escape from the tangled web of debt or
enemies they’ve piled up. Other pugilists fight because
it’s the only thing they know how to do. Whatever the
reason for their adventuring, pugilists are as excited by
the prospect of throwing punches as they are spending
every last gold coin they earn.
Hardship
No one becomes as tough as a pugilist without enduring
terrible hardship and persevering. For a pugilist,
suffering is a catalyst that reveals their unbreakable
spirit and strength. These hardships also influence a
pugilist in other ways. If you were raised on the street,
you might have a special interest in looking after the
poor and destitute. If you were jailed for a crime you
didn’t commit, your relationship with the town guard
might be more antagonistic than the average adventurer.
Like so many other pugilists, your will was forged in
the fires of adversity. What did you learn about yourself
when you came out the other side? How does that
experience continue to influence you today?
Favorite Dive
Every hard-fighting hero needs a refuge where they can
relax and rejuvenate. For pugilists, these sanctuaries
tend to be disreputable. You might head to your favorite
dive to indulge in your vice of choice or fraternize with
the common folk. Some pugilists find the only way
they can truly unwind is by getting bloodied in a fight.
Others have a quiet side that few outside their closest
companions ever see.
How long has your favorite dive been your go-to spot?
Do you have any friends or rivals that frequent the
same place?
Rumor
Pugilists are frequent subjects of rumors and
speculation. The combination of their resilience, might,
and panache make them popular topics over a pint at
the local tavern. Add to this most pugilists come from
humble beginnings and it’s easy to see why the public
comes up with such colorful stories about them.
Whether or not it’s true, you have a particular rumor
that follows you wherever you go. How do you feel about
your reputation? Do you indulge rumormongers, or does
the speculation about your background annoy you?
Creating a Pugilist
As you build your pugilist, consider how you came to
be a bare knuckle brawler. Did you learn to fight to
defend yourself? Was scraping the natural result of your
nose for trouble? Or did you learn to fight as a way of
intimidating and controlling others? Were you fighting
for the entertainment, or did you fight because you had
to? Did you try to become a more traditional martial
artist but just couldn’t hack it? Pugilists are a rowdy
bunch that like to brag about how they learned to fight,
so you better have a good story to tell.
What events in your life gave you the sheer
determination and will that pugilists call on? Did you
spend every day hustling on the street to make ends
meet? Were you forgotten and ignored by your family?
Were you an outsider in your community who had to
constantly struggle against the ignorant stereotypes the
people there had of you? The most important element
of the pugilist is that they are driven. Once you have
decided what events made you into the pugilist you are
today, decide how that may shape the actions you take in
the future.
Quick Build
You can make a pugilist quickly by following these
suggestions. First, make Strength your highest ability
score, followed by Constitution. Second, choose the
criminal or urchin background.
Class Features
As a pugilist, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per pugilist level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your
Constitution modifier per pugilist level after 1st
Hardships
d6 Hardship
1 A plague took your family when you were a child leaving
you to spend the rest of your youth in an orphanage.
2 You were harrassed by the town guard then framed for
a crime you did not commit.
3 You lost everything when a trusted friend betrayed you.
4 Your parents sold you to the thieves guild for less
than a gold piece.
5 You drank your life away until you hit rock bottom and
sobered up.
6 You refused to throw a match at a gang boss’s
insistence and your family ended up paying the price.
Dives
d6 Favorite Dive
1 A seedy tavern where brawls break out on a nightly basis.
2 An underground fight venue where people come to
bet coin on the outcome.
3 A barbershop where they’re always eager to hear tales
of your latest exploits.
4 A high stakes gambling den with games of skill
and chance.
5 The orphanage you grew up in that was closed and
abandoned some years ago.
6 A quiet library.
Rumors
d6 Rumor
1 You got your prodigious strength from suckling milk at
the teet of a giantess.
2 You won a drinking competition against a dwarf...and
then three more before the night was through.
3 The town guards hate you as much as their spouses
love you.
4 You are an enforcer for one of the most powerful
figures in the criminal underworld.
5 You wrestled an owlbear to the ground with such ease
you fell asleep during the tussle.
6 Your daddy was an earth elemental which is why your
bones are made of iron.
5
Classes | Pugilist
Proficiencies
Armor: Light armor
Weapons: Simple weapons, improvised weapons, whip,
 hand crossbow
Tools: Your choice of one artisan’s tools, gaming set, or
thieves’ tools
Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution
Skills: Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Athletics,
Deception, Intimidation, Perception, Sleight of Hand,
and Stealth.
Equipment
You start with the following equipment in addition to the
equipment gained by your background:
• (a) leather armor or (b) any simple weapon
• (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
• (a) a set of artisan’s tools (b) a gaming set or (c)
thieves’ tools
Fisticuffs
At 1st level, your years of fighting in back alleys and
taverns have given you mastery over combat styles that use
unarmed strikes and pugilist weapons, which are simple
melee weapons without the two-handed property, whips,
and improvised weapons. You may not use the finesse
property of a weapon while using it as a pugilist weapon.
You gain the following benefits while you are unarmed
or using only pugilist weapons and you are wearing light
or no armor and not using a shield:
• You can roll a d6 in place of the normal damage of
your unarmed strike or pugilist weapon. This die
changes as you gain pugilist levels, as shown in the
Fisticuffs column on the Pugilist table.
• When you use the Attack action with an unarmed
strike or a pugilist weapon on your turn, you can make
one unarmed strike or grapple as a bonus action.
Iron Chin
Beginning at 1st level, while you are wearing light or no
armor and not wielding a shield, your AC equals 12 +
your Constitution modifier.
Moxie
Starting at 2nd level, your experience laying the
beatdown on others has given you a moxie you
can channel in the midst of battle. This swagger is
represented by a number of moxie points. Your pugilist
level determines the maximum number of points you
have, as shown in the Moxie Points column of the
Pugilist table.
You can spend these points to fuel various moxie
features. You start knowing three such features: Brace
Up, The Old One-Two, and Stick and Move. You learn
more moxie features as you gain levels in this class. You
regain all expended moxie points when you complete a
short or long rest.
Brace Up
You can use a bonus action and spend 1 moxie point to
brace for attacks. Roll your fisticuffs die + your pugilist
level + your Constitution modifier and gain that many
temporary hit points.
The Old One-Two
Immediately after you take the Attack action on your
turn, you can spend 1 moxie point to make two unarmed
strikes as a bonus action.
Stick and Move
You can use a bonus action and expend 1 moxie point to
make a shove attack or take the Dash action.
The Pugilist
Level
Proficiency
Bonus Fisticuffs
Moxie
Points Features
1st +2 1d6 — Fisticuffs, Iron Chin
2nd +2 1d6 2 Moxie, Street Smart
3rd +2 1d6 2 Bloodied but
Unbowed, Fight Club
4th +2 1d6 3 Ability Score
Improvement, Dig
Deep
5th +3 1d8 3 Extra Attack,
Haymaker
6th +3 1d8 4 Fight Club feature,
Moxie-Fueled Fists
7th +3 1d8 4 Fancy Footwork,
Shake It Off
8th +3 1d8 5 Ability Score
Improvement
9th +4 1d8 5 Down but Not Out
10th +4 1d8 6 School of Hard
Knocks
11th +4 1d10 6 Fight Club feature
12th +4 1d10 7 Ability Score
Improvement
13th +5 1d10 7 Rabble Rouser
14th +5 1d10 8 Unbreakable
15th +5 1d10 8 Herculean
16th +5 1d10 9 Ability Score
Improvement
17th +6 1d12 9 Fight Club feature
18th +6 1d12 10 Fighting Spirit
19th +6 1d12 10 Ability Score
Improvement
20th +6 1d12 12 Peak Physical
Condition
6
Classes | Pugilist
Street Smart
Beginning at 2nd level, carousing, shadowboxing, and
sparring all count as light activity for the purposes of
resting for you. Additionally, once you have caroused in
a settlement for 8 hours or more, you know all public
locations in the city as if you were born and raised there
and you cannot be lost by non-magical means while
within the city.
Bloodied But Unbowed
Starting at 3rd level, when you take damage that
reduces you to half your maximum hit points or less, you
can use your reaction to gain temporary hit points equal
to your pugilist level + your Constitution modifier and
you regain all expended moxie points. You cannot use
this feature again until you finish a short or long rest.
Fight Club
Starting at 3rd level, you choose a fight club that best
exemplifies your style: Arena Royale, Bloodhound
Bruisers, Dog & Hound, Hand of Dread, Piss & Vinegar,
the Squared Circle, or the Sweet Science, all detailed at
the end of the class description. Your fight club grants you
features at 3rd level and again at 6th, 11th, and 17th level.
Ability Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th,
and 19th level, you can increase one ability score of your
choice by 2, or you can increase two ability scores of
your choice by 1. As normal, you can’t increase an ability
score above 20 using this feature.
Dig Deep
Starting at 4th level, you discover a strength inside
you that can’t be broken. As a bonus action, you gain
resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
damage for one minute. At the end of that minute you
gain a level of exhaustion.
Extra Attack
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of
once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Haymaker
Starting at 5th level, before you make an attack that
does not already have disadvantage, you can declare
you are swinging wild haymakers. You make all weapon
attack rolls until the end of this turn with disadvantage
and when you deal damage with a pugilist weapon or an
unarmed strike you do not roll for the weapon’s damage
die, but use the maximum die result instead.
Moxie-Fueled Fists
Starting at 6th level, your unarmed strikes count as
magical for the purpose of overcoming resistance and
immunity to non-magical attacks and damage.
Fancy Footwork
At 7th level, you gain proficiency in Dexterity saving throws.
Shake It Off
Starting at 7th level, you can use your action to
end one effect on yourself that is causing you to be
charmed or frightened.
Down But Not Out
At 9th level, when you use your Bloodied But Unbowed
feature you can choose to also use this feature. If you
do, you add your proficiency bonus to your damage
with unarmed attacks and pugilist weapons for the
next minute. You can use this feature again after you
complete a long rest.
School of Hard Knocks
By 10th level, you’ve graduated top of the class at the
school of hard knocks and you took most of them on the
head. You have resistance to psychic damage and gain
advantage on saving throws against effects that would
make you stunned or unconscious.
Rabble Rouser
Starting at 13th level, word of your exploits travels quickly
in cities and other settlements. Once you have taken a
long rest by carousing in a settlement, you gain advantage
on all Charisma (Persuasion) and Charisma (Intimidation)
rolls made against the people who live there.
Unbreakable
Starting at 14th level, you gain advantage on Strength,
Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. Additionally,
whenever you make a saving throw and fail, you can
spend 1 moxie point to reroll it and take the second result.
Herculean
At 15th level, your carrying capacity is doubled, and
when you deal damage with a melee weapon or
unarmed strike to an inanimate object that damage is
doubled. Your standing jump distance is the same as
your running start jump distance.
Fighting Spirit
Starting at 18th level, when you have 4
levels of exhaustion or fewer and are
reduced to 0 hit points, you regain half
of your maximum hit points, half of your
maximum moxie points, and gain a level
of exhaustion. You cannot use this feature
again until you finish a long rest.
Peak Physical Condition
At 20th level, your Strength and
Constitution ability scores increase by 2
to a maximum of 22. Additionally, when
you take a long rest you recover 2 levels of
exhaustion instead of 1 and you regain all
your expended hit dice instead of half
your expended hit dice.
7
Classes | Pugilist
Fight Clubs
Despite the name, fight clubs are not formal fraternities
or sororities, but collections of pugilists who, by
training or happenstance, share a similar style. In
some D&D worlds, fight clubs can tell you a lot about
where a person comes from, while in others there
are representatives of many fighting styles in all
metropolitan areas.
Arena Royale
Pugilists in the Arena Royale fight club travel the
world earning their keep as equal parts performer
and gladiator. Whether performing in staged physical
competitions, or fighting it out in unscripted brawls,
pugilists in the Arena Royale care as much about the
theatrics of a fight as they do its outcome. Pugilists in
this fight club also care deeply about their reputation
and work to build up local and regional legends about
their performing personas.
Bonus Proficiency
Starting when you choose this Fight Club at 3rd level,
you gain proficiency in the Performance skill, if you don’t
have it already. If you do, you gain proficiency in your
choice of the Intimidation or Persuasion skill.
Persona Libre
Also at 3rd level, you create an alternate persona that
you can adopt or discard as a bonus action on your turn.
When you create an alternate persona you should give
the persona a striking name as well as some physical
signifier (such as a mask, colorful cape, or another
prominent idiosyncratic feature). Unless you tell a
creature, or the creature sees you adopt your persona,
they do not know you and the adopted persona are the
same person.
Additionally, you have a pool of persona points equal
to 3 + your Charisma modifier (minimum 1). When you
use an ability that costs moxie points, you can spend
persona points instead. In addition, before you make a
Charisma ability check you can spend a persona point
to add your Strength modifier to the result. You can
only use persona points while you have adopted your
persona. You regain all expended persona points when
you finish a long rest.
Work the Crowd
At 6th level, while you have adopted your alternate
persona, you can use your action to inspire your choice
of fear or adoration in those nearby. When you do, all
creatures within 30 feet who can see you must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw (DC 8 + your proficiency
bonus + your Strength modifier) or be charmed, if you
chose adoration, or frightened if you chose fear. This
effect lasts for one minute. Each time a creature takes
damage from you or one of your allies it can repeat the
saving throw, ending the effect on a success. You can use
this feature again after you finish a long rest.
High Flyer
Starting at 11th level, your base movement increases by
10 feet, your jump distance is doubled, and you can use a
bonus action on your turn to take the Dash action.
Signature Move
Starting at 17th level, you create a signature move
that you can use while you have adopted your alternate
persona. Give your signature move a name and a
description. You can replace one of your unarmed
attacks or attacks with a pugilist weapon on your turn
with this signature move.
When you use your signature move, you can jump
in any direction up to your movement speed, make an
attack roll with advantage against a creature in your
reach and, if you hit, the attack is a critical and the
creature is stunned until the end of your next turn.
If you hit with your signature move, you must finish a
long rest before you can use it again. If you miss with your
signature move, you regain the use of it after 1 minute.
Bloodhound Bruisers
Pugilists in the Bloodhound Bruisers fight club are
notorious for looking for trouble and finding it every
time. Members of this fight club are highly observant of
character traits and physical evidence and can form an
almost supernatural connection to the cities they live
in. Most use these abilities to become urban defenders
of the downtrodden but others lend their talents to less
savory organizations.
Ever Vigilant
When you choose this fight club at 3rd level, you have
advantage on initiative rolls. During the first round of
combat, you have advantage on attack rolls against
creatures who haven’t acted yet.
8
Classes | Pugilist
Detective Work
Also at 3rd level, you gain proficiency with two of the
following skills of your choice: Insight, Investigation, or
Perception. In addition, when you make an Intelligence
(Investigation), Wisdom (Insight), or Wisdom
(Perception) ability check you can spend 1 moxie point
to gain advantage on that ability check.
Scrap Like a Sleuth
At 6th level, you can use a bonus action and expend 2
moxie points to hone in on the idiosyncrasies and bad
habits of an enemy you can see within 30 feet. When
you do, you have advantage on weapon attacks against
the creature and you add your proficiency bonus to your
AC against attacks made by that creature. These effects
continue for 1 minute or until you use this feature again.
Heart of the City
Starting at 11th level, when you take a long rest in a
settlement, you can choose to become familiar with
the settlement. When you use this feature again, you
replace your previous familiar settlement with the
current one. You gain the following benefits while in a
familiar settlement:
• You cannot be surprised and you add your proficiency
bonus to your initiative.
• You have darkvision to a range of 120 feet.
• When you make an ability check using the Insight,
Investigation, or Perception skills that adds your
proficiency bonus, add twice your proficiency
bonus instead.
• You cannot be lost by any means.
• When you are not in combat, you can travel between
any two points in the settlement twice as fast as your
speed would normally allow.
Eyes Wide Open
Starting at 17th level, you can use a bonus action
and spend 1 moxie point to open your senses to your
surroundings for 1 minute. During this time, you have
advantage on saving throws against being blinded or
deafened and have truesight out to a distance of 30 feet.
Dog & Hound
You’ve never had a friend you could rely on that walked
on two legs. Lucky for you, you’ve got the best fourlegged friend a body could ask for. Pugilists in the
Dog & Hound fight club are as faithful to their canine
companions as their canine companions are to them.
Bonus Proficiency
When you choose this fight club at 3rd level, you gain
proficiency with the Animal Handling skill if you don’t
already have it. If you do, you gain proficiency in your
choice of the Perception or Survival skill.
Brawler’s Best Friend
Also at 3rd level, you gain a hound that accompanies
you on your adventures and fights alongside you. Your
hound can be any breed of dog or similar canine
creature, but uses the statistics of a wolf (found in
appendix A of the Monster Manual). You add your
proficiency bonus to your hound’s AC, saving throws,
attack rolls, and damage rolls.
For each level you gain after 3rd, your hound gains
an additional d8 hit die and increases its hit points
accordingly.
You can use a bonus action on each of your turns to
verbally command your hound to take the Attack, Dash,
Disengage, Dodge, or Help action that turn. It does not
have its own turn unless you are incapacitated or absent.
If you are incapacitated or absent, the hound acts
on its own (continuing to act on your turn, if you are
incapacitated), focusing on protecting you and itself.
The hound never requires your command to use its
reaction, such as when making an opportunity attack.
If your hound dies, you can obtain a new one by
spending 8 hours bonding with a canine animal that
isn’t hostile to you.
Mutt With Moxie
At 3rd level, you share everything with your faithful
hound: food, shelter, even moxie. When you use certain
moxie abilities, your hound gains a benefit as well.
Brace Up. When you gain temporary hit points as a
result of using your Brace Up moxie ability, your hound
gains the same number of temporary hit points.
The Old One-Two. When you use your The Old OneTwo moxie ability, your hound can make one or both
attacks instead of you.
Stick and Move. When you use your Stick and Move
moxie ability, your hound can take the Dash action.
Arcanine Bite
At 6th level, your hound’s attacks count as magical for
the purpose of overcoming resistance and immunity to
non-magical attacks and damage.
Coordinated Attack
Also at 6th level, you and your canine companion
form a more potent fighting team. When you use the
Attack action on your turn, if your hound can see you,
it can use its reaction to make a melee attack.
Hound’s Best Friend
At 11th level, when a creature deals damage
to your hound with an attack, you can use your
reaction to make an opportunity attack against that
creature if you are within range.
9
Classes | Pugilist
Dire Hound
Beginning at 17th level, you use the statistics for a
dire wolf (found in appendix A of the Monster Manual),
instead of a wolf, for your hound, except that its size
remains Medium. These statistics are modified as
described in your Brawler’s Best Friend feature.
Hand of Dread
In your darkest hour you pleaded for the strength to take
what you wanted from the world and a dread power took
notice. At first, you may have relished the cathartic rush
that came with channeling your dread power to claim
what you felt you deserved. This pact, however, came
with strings attached. In times of distress you hear the
entity whispering in the back of your mind, encouraging
you to indulge your most base impulses.
Black Magic
When you choose this fight club at 3rd level, you learn
the blade ward, eldritch blast, and prestidigitation
cantrips. Constitution is your spellcasting modifier
for these spells since you channel the magic of dread
powers through your body when you cast them.
In addition, you learn to speak, read, and write one of
the following languages of your choice: Abyssal, Infernal,
or Sylvan. At the DM’s discretion, you may choose
another language more appropriate to your dread power.
Dread Hand
Also at 3rd level, you can use a bonus action on your
turn to manifest the evidence of your foul pledge. When
you do, one of your limbs (often an arm) transmogrifies
into a monstrous appearance reminiscent of your dread
power for 1 minute.
• When you roll a 1 on a damage die for an unarmed
strike attack you made, you can reroll the die and
must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1.
• The first time you miss with an unarmed strike attack
each turn you can make an additional unarmed strike
attack as part of the same action.
• Immediately after you take the Attack action on your
turn, you can spend 2 moxie points to make three
unarmed strikes as a bonus action.
You must finish a short or long rest before you can use
this feature again.
Deal With The Devil
Starting at 6th level, you gain two eldritch invocations of
your choice from among those available to the warlock
class. When you gain a level in this class, you can choose
one of the invocations you know and replace it with
another invocation that you meet the prerequisites for.
Grotesque Growth
At 11th Level, when you use your Dread Hand feature
you can choose to grow into a towering misshapen
form for one minute. When you do, your size increases
by one category — from Medium to Large, for example.
If there isn’t enough room for you to grow to that size,
you grow to the maximum possible size the space will
allow. While enlarged in this way, you have advantage on
Strength checks and Strength saving throws, your reach
becomes 10 feet, and your melee weapon attacks deal
1d4 extra damage. When the minute is over, you suffer
one level of exhaustion (as described in appendix A of
the Player’s Handbook).
Fountain of Viscera
At 17th level, you can use an action and expend 6 moxie
points to attempt to execute a creature of your choice
within reach by burrowing your hand into its body
and extracting its innards. The creature must make a
Dexterity saving throw (DC equal to 8 + your proficiency
bonus + your Strength modifier). On a failure, the
creature takes 100 piercing damage. On a success, the
creature takes 50 piercing damage instead.
If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points or less,
it immediately dies as you rip a hole through it, creating a
stomach-turning fountain of viscera. When this happens,
each creature within 30 feet of you who can see you
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw (DC equal to
8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength modifier) or
be frightened of you for 1 minute. A creature who fails
the saving throw can make the Wisdom saving throw
again at the end of each of its turns, ending the frightened
condition early on a success.
Once you use this feature, you must finish a long rest
before you can use it again.
Piss & Vinegar
Pugilists in the Piss & Vinegar fight club revel in their
reputations as heels. Widely despised for their obscene
curses and dirty tricks, these pugilists take pride in their
ability to provoke and fight to win at all costs.
Bonus Proficiency
Starting when you choose this fight club at 3rd level, you
gain proficiency with the Intimidation skill if you don’t
have it already.
Salty Salute
Also at 3rd level, you have mastered the art of the
enraging insult. You can use a bonus action on your turn
to provoke a creature within 60 feet who can see or hear
you. That creature must make a Wisdom saving throw.
On a failure, the creature takes your fisticuff’s damage
die + your Charisma modifier in psychic damage and
has disadvantage on any attack rolls it makes that do not
include you as a target before the start of your next turn.
For any of your Piss & Vinegar features that require
your opponent to make a saving throw, the saving DC is
calculated as follows:
Piss & Vinegar save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus +
your Charisma modifier
Dirty Tricks
Starting at 6th level, you have a few tricks up your sleeve
to even the odds when the going gets rough. You can
each of these dirty tricks once and regain their use
when you finish a short or long rest.
Heelstomper. When you deal damage with an
unarmed attack, you attempt to slow the creature you hit.
The creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. On
a failure, you gain 1 moxie point (up to your maximum)
and its movement speed is halved for one minute.
Dread Powers
A dread power can be any powerful malevolent entity
capable of bestowing a portion of its power onto a mortal.
Archdemons, fey royalty, ancient liches, and unfathomable
intelligences from beyond space and time are all possibilities.
10
Classes | Pugilist
Low Blow. When you deal damage with an unarmed
attack you can choose to hit them below the belt. The
creature must make a Strength saving throw. On a
failure, you gain 1 moxie point (up to your maximum)
and it is knocked prone.
Pocket Sand. You can use a bonus action to attempt
to blind a creature within 5 feet. The creature must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failure, you gain
1 moxie point (up to your maximum) and it is blinded
until the end of its next turn.
Mean Old Cuss
At 11th level, your threats and mean spirited tricks pack an
extra punch. When you make a Charisma (Intimidation)
ability check, you can use your reaction and spend 1 moxie
to give yourself advantage on the roll. When a creature
makes a saving throw against one of your Piss & Vinegar
features, you can use your reaction and spend 1 moxie to
give that roll disadvantage.
The Uncouth Art
Starting at 17th level, you gain the ability to offend every
creature in the room with minimal effort. When you
use your Salty Salute feature, you can choose to target
a number of creatures within 60 feet who can see or
hear you up to your level in this class instead of a single
creature. You gain 1 moxie point (up to your maximum)
the first time each creature targeted in this way hits you
with an attack before the start of your next turn. You can
use this feature again after you finish a long rest.
The Squared Circle
Pugilists who fight in the Squared Circle know you
don’t have to knock an opponent senseless to get them
to submit. Of course, members of the Squared Circle
do beat their opponents senseless, they just know they
don’t have to.
Groundwork
Starting when you choose this fight club at 3rd level, you
gain the following additional moxie features.
Compression Lock. When a creature attempts to
break a grapple with you and succeeds, you can use your
reaction and spend 1 moxie point to force the creature
to roll again. The creature must use the second result.
Quick Pin. When a hostile creature’s movement
provokes an opportunity attack from you, you can
use your reaction and spend 1 moxie point to make a
grapple attack instead of an opportunity attack.
To the Mat. You can use a bonus action and spend
1 moxie point to make a grapple attack against a
creature within range. If successful, the creature is
also knocked prone.
Meat Shield
At 6th level, when you have an enemy creature grappled,
you gain half cover against all attacks made against you
by a creature you are not grappling. When a weapon
attack made by a creature you are not grappling misses
you, you may use your reaction and spend 1 moxie point
to have that creature make the same attack with a new
roll against an enemy creature you are grappling.
Heavyweight
At 11th level, you count as one size larger than you are
for the purposes of grappling. In addition, you can move
your full movement speed when you are dragging or
carrying a grappled creature your size or smaller.
Clean Finish
At 17th level, your mastery of grappling reaches its peak.
While you have a creature grappled, you gain advantage
on all attacks against it. Additionally, when you make
an unarmed strike or pugilist weapon attack against a
creature you have grappled, you score a critical hit on a
roll of 19 or 20.
The Sweet Science
Pugilists who practice the Sweet Science hit hard, fast,
and often. This style is sometimes used by fighters who
battle for the entertainment of the upper classes, but is
just as often practiced in the back alleys and the bars by
those whose next breath depends on a knockout.
Cross Counter
Starting when you choose this fight club at 3rd level, you
can block the brunt of an attack and launch one of your
own in the same fluid motion. You can use your reaction
and spend 2 moxie points to reduce the damage of a
melee weapon attack made against you by 1d10 + your
Strength modifier + your pugilist level.
If you reduce the damage to 0, you can make an
unarmed strike, or pugilist weapon attack, against a
creature within range as part of the same reaction.
11
Classes | Pugilist
One, Two, Three, Floor
At 6th level, when you use your bonus action to use the
Old One-Two and hit the same creature with both attacks,
you can spend 1 moxie to make an additional unarmed
strike against that creature as part of the same bonus
action. If you hit, the creature is knocked prone in addition
to taking damage as normal for your unarmed strike.
Float Like a Butterfly, Sting Like a Bee
At 11th level, when you reduce damage from an attack
to 0 and successfully hit an enemy creature using your
Cross Counter feature you regain 1 moxie point (up to
your maximum).
Knock Out
At 17th level, when you hit with an unarmed strike or
pugilist weapon, you can spend 1 or more moxie points
to try to knock out the opponent instead of dealing
damage. Roll 3d12 + 2d12 for every moxie point spent
after the first and add your pugilist level to the result;
if the total is equal to or greater than the creature’s
remaining hit points, it is unconscious for 10 minutes.
Pugilist & Multiclassing
Pugilists follow all the normal rules for multiclassing.
The following tables function as additions to those listed
on page 163 and 164 of the Player’s Handbook.
Equipment
DMs may wish to use the following new weapons and
magic items in their campaigns.
Weapons
Your DM may allow the use of common brawling
implements in her campaign. Introduced here are
three such weapons. These weapons each have the
unarmed weapon property, which is detailed below the
Weapons table.
Weapon Properties
Many weapons have special properties related to their use,
as shown in the Weapons table. The property presented
here supplements those found in the Player’s Handbook.
Unarmed. When you make an unarmed attack you
can choose to deal the damage of this weapon instead of
your normal unarmed attack damage.
Magic Items
Magic items are presented in alphabetical order. A
magic item’s description gives the item’s name, its
category, its rarity, and its magical properties.
Bonebreakers
Weapon (brass knuckles), legendary (requires attunement
by a pugilist)
These unremarkable brass knuckles appear well used if
not well loved. They are covered in dings and scratches
accompanied by the odd stain.
You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with this magic weapon. When you hit a creature with
this weapon, you can use your reaction to attempt to
maim them. When you do, the creature must succeed
on a Constitution saving throw (DC 16) or be maimed in
one of the following ways of your choice:
• Broken Arm. The creature has disadvantage with
weapon attack rolls.
• Broken Leg. The creature’s walking speed is halved.
• Broken Ribs. The creature has disadvantage on
Strength and Dexterity ability checks and saving throws.
• Broken Skull. Attack rolls against the creature
are considered one higher for the purposes of
determining whether or not the result is a critical.
The maimed condition ends on a creature only after
they have received medical treatment from a trained
professional and rested for one month or they are
targeted by a greater restoration spell or similar magic.
After you use this ability to attempt to maim a creature,
you must finish a short or long rest before you can use
it again.
Bottle of Brew Tasting
Wondrous item, rare
This magic item is a glass bottle with a blank label.
When a potion or other liquid is poured into the bottle,
the contents and effects of the liquid will appear, written
in Common, on the label. This writing fades when the
bottle is emptied of its contents.
If this bottle is broken, it loses the ability to identify
liquids but instead functions as an improvised weapon
with a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls.
Club of Unconsciousness
Weapon (club), rare (requires attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with this magic weapon.
Additionally, this club has 5 charges. When you deal
damage with this weapon, you can expend one or more
charges to attempt to render the creature unconscious.
When you do, roll 5d8 (+2d8 for each charge expended
beyond the first). If the creature has a number of hit
points remaining that is equal to or less than the total
of your roll, the creature forgets everything it saw and
Weapons
Name Cost Damage Weight Properties
Simple Melee Weapons
Brass knuckles 1 gp 1d4 bludgeoning 1 lb. Light, unarmed
Katar 3 gp 1d4 piercing 3 lb. Light, unarmed
Knuckle knives 3 gp 1d4 slashing 2 lb. Light, unarmed
Multiclassing Prerequisites
Class Ability Score Minimum
Pugilist Strength 13 and Constitution 13
Multiclassing Proficiencies
Class Proficiencies Gained
Pugilist Light armor, improvised weapons
12
Classes | Pugilist
Everfull Stein
Leather Jerkin
heard over the last minute and is unconscious for 1 hour
or until another person uses an action to shake or slap
the sleeper awake.
The club regains 1d3 + 1 expended charges daily
at dawn.
Coin of Easy Living
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
This gold coin appears totally normal to mundane
senses but, when flipped, always lands heads up. While
you are attuned to this item, you can summon it to your
palm at will.
Enchanted Inks
Potion, common (1st), uncommon (2nd), rare (3rd), very
rare (4th), or legendary (5th)
This set of inks can be used to make a single tattoo,
which consumes the inks. When a creature is tattooed
with enchanted inks, choose one spell. The spell’s level
cannot exceed the level determined by the rarity of the
enchanted inks.
The tattooed creature can cast this spell, using
the tattoo as a spellcasting focus. Constitution is the
spellcasting ability for this spell. After casting the spell
with the tattoo, the creature cannot cast the spell in this
way again until it finishes a long rest.
Everfull Stein
Wondrous item, uncommon
This large ceramic stein is decorated with dwarven
glyphs and topped with a brass metal lid that can be
opened by thumb lever. While the lid is closed and the
stein is empty, the owner need only name a non-magical
ale, beer, or mead he has had before and the stein fills
with that brew.
Leather Jerkin, +1, +2, or +3
Wondrous item, rare (+1), very rare (+2), or legendary (+3)
You have a bonus to AC while you are unarmored and
wearing this garment. The bonus is determined by its rarity.
Loaded Dice
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This set of six-sided dice is indistinguishable from
mundane dice, but blessed with good fortune. After
you make an ability check, attack roll, or saving throw,
but before the DM declares success or failure, you can
expend 1 charge to reroll the d20. Loaded dice can have
up to 7 charges and regain 1d6+1 charges each week.
Additionally, if used to play a dice game, the owner of
the dice has advantage on any ability check to determine
the winner of the game.
Mage Mashers
Weapon (brass knuckles), very rare (requires attunement)
These brass knuckles are forged from a dull black ore
that sparkles with a prism of colors when held to light.
They feel heavier than they look like they should be,
especially to creatures capable of casting spells.
You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with this magic weapon. When you hit a creature with
the spellcasting or pact magic trait, that creature takes
an extra 1d6 force damage. In addition, any creature
who makes a saving throw to maintain concentration
on a spell as a result of damage you deal with these
weapons has disadvantage on that saving throw.
Medallion of Mettle
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This ostentatious medallion draws the eye of even
casual onlookers. Whenever you gain temporary hit
points, you gain an additional 1d6 temporary hit points.
Mugfist Knuckles
Weapon (brass knuckles), uncommon (requires
attunement)
These brass knuckles are plated with cheap faux gold
that wouldn’t fool even the most casual observer.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with this magic weapon. When you attack a creature
with this magic weapon and roll a 20, 1d6 gold pieces
fall onto the ground in the creature’s space.
Penitent Pummelers
Weapon (brass knuckles, knuckle knives, or katar), rare
(requires attunement)
These weapons are made of gold and etched with a holy
symbol over each knuckle. You gain a +1 to attack and
damage rolls with this magic weapon. When you hit a
fiend or undead creature, that creature takes an extra
1d6 radiant damage.
Enchanted Inks
Medallion of Mettle Loaded Dice
13
Classes | Pugilist
Poundwise Porter
Potion, very rare
This potion is thick and so dark brown it is nearly black.
For one minute after consuming this potion, you gain +3
to damage with unarmed attacks.
Prehensile Whip
Weapon (whip), rare (requires attunement)
When not in use this whip looks like any other but,
when wielded by an attuned creature, the weapon
moves with purpose and articulation that betrays its
magical nature. You gain a +1 to attack and damage
rolls with this magic weapon. When you hit a creature
or object with this weapon you may use your reaction
to make a grapple attack against it using the whip
instead of a free hand. When grappling in this way,
your reach is considered 10 feet.
Punchdrunk Punters
Weapon (brass knuckles, knuckle knives, katar), rare
(requires attunement)
These beat up and well worn weapons smell as if
they’ve spent a week at the bottom of a forgotten cask
in a busy tavern.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with this magic weapon. Each time you deal damage to
a creature, that creature gains a toxin point. It keeps the
toxin point for one hour. You can use an action to cause
a creature you can see to take 1d8 poison damage per
toxin point it has, then it loses all toxin points.
Ramuh’s Katar
Weapon (katar), very rare (requires attunement)
This punching dagger style weapon is carved from a
single chunk of superconductive, dark violet metal that
binds to the fist and forearm with black leather straps.
While you are attuned to and wearing this magical
weapon, you have advantage on initiative rolls and your
jumping distances are tripled. You gain a +2 bonus to
attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.
When you attack a creature with this magic weapon
and roll a 20 on the attack roll, that creature takes an
additional 8 lightning damage.
Ratbite
Weapon (knuckle knives), legendary (requires attunement)
These pungent weapons are made of leather of dubious
origin with clumps of fur still attached. The leather grip
fits snugly over the knuckles, with rat teeth and bits of
bone sticking out the outward facing side. It gives off a
unpleasant odor.
You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with these magic weapons. While you are attuned
to these weapons, you are immune to disease. Any
creature who takes damage from this weapon must
succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or
contract sewer plague (described in Chapter 8 of the
Dungeon Master’s Guide). When you attack a creature
with this magic weapon and roll a 20, they take an
additional 8 necrotic damage and have disadvantage on
saving throws against diseases for one week.
Salamander Sauce
Potion, uncommon
This potion is bright red and smells of peppers and
spices. It is typically drizzled on food prior to being
consumed but it is possible to consume it straight. A vial
of salamander sauce typically has two doses.
When you consume this potion, you choose how many
doses to consume. If you consume one dose, you gain
resistance to cold damage for 8 hours. If you consume two
doses, you gain immunity to cold damage and vulnerability
to fire damage for 8 hours. For each dose you consume
beyond the first two, you must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw (DC 14) or gain a level of exhaustion.
Scyboo Snack
Potion, uncommon
This potion must be baked into a biscuit form before
its magic can take effect. Its smell is slightly off-putting
to humanoids, but is very enticing to beasts. When a
beast consumes a biscuit made from this potion, its
size increases by one category (from Medium to Large,
for example) for 10 minutes. While the beast’s size is
increased, it has advantage on Strength checks and saving
throws and its weapon attacks deal 1d4 extra damage.
Spiked Collar
Wondrous item, uncommon (+1), rare (+2), or very
rare (+3)
This collar comes in a variety of colors and sizes, all
with metal spikes protruding around the outside of
the collar. A beast wearing this wondrous item has a
bonus to unarmed strike attack and damage rolls while
wearing this collar. The bonus is determined by its rarity.
Studded Collar
Wondrous item, uncommon (+1), rare (+2), or very
rare (+3)
This collar comes in a variety of colors and sizes, all
with crystalline studs decorating the outside of the
collar. A beast wearing this wondrous item has a bonus
to AC and saving throws while wearing this collar. The
bonus is determined by its rarity.
Thunder Knuckles
Weapon (brass knuckles), very rare (requires attunement)
These brass knuckles are made of blue cobalt rings with
a silver knuckle guard in the shape of a cloudbank. Once
attuned, the cloudbank darkens and shifts constantly
across the knuckles of its wearer occasionally
illuminating briefly as miniature lightning bolts
harmlessly crackle within the clouds.
Studded Collar
14
Classes | Pugilist
You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with this magic weapon. When you attack a creature with
this magic weapon and roll a 20 on the attack roll, it takes
an additional 8 thunder damage and is knocked prone.
Whistle of Dog Calling
Wondrous item, rare
You can use an action to blow this unassuming whistle
that’s inaudible to all creatures except canines. When
you do, you cast the conjure animals spell but can only
choose to summon two dire wolves or eight wolves. You
do not need to maintain concentration, but the duration
is 10 minutes instead of 1 hour. Once you do, this magic
cannot be used again until dawn of the next day.
Winter’s Bite
Weapon (katar), uncommon (requires attunement)
This wool-lined, off-white leather glove is frigid to the
touch, but comfortable when worn. Once attuned to
this magic item, you can cause an icicle to grow from
the glove, making it function like a katar. Alternatively,
you can launch an icicle from the glove, acting like a
hand crossbow. In both cases, these weapons deal cold
damage instead of piercing damage.
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with this magic weapon. When you attack a creature
with this magic weapon and roll a 20 its speed is
halved until the end of its next turn. This does not affect
creatures who are immune to cold damage.
Nonplayer Characters
Included here are several nonplayer characters that can
serve as Pugilist inspired foes for use in your campaign.
Brawler
Medium humanoid, unaligned
Armor Class 14 (leather armor)
Hit Points 32 (5d8 + 10)
Speed 30 ft.
Senses passive Perception 9
Languages Common
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Iron Chin. While the brawler is wearing light or no armor and
not using a shield, it uses its Constitution modifier in place of its
Dexterity modifier to determine its AC.
Actions
Multiattack. The brawler makes two fisticuffs attacks or one
fisticuffs attack and uses brace up.
Fisticuffs. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage.
Brace Up. The brawler gains 7 (1d6 + 4) temporary hit points.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
15 (+2) 11 (+0) 14 (+2) 10 (+0) 9 (-1) 12 (+1)
Wrestler
Medium humanoid, unaligned
Armor Class 15 (leather armor)
Hit Points 67 (9d8 + 27)
Speed 30 ft.
Skills Athletics +6
Saving Throws Strength +6, Constitution +5
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Common
Challenge 3(700 XP)
Actions
Multiattack. The wrestler makes three fisticuffs attacks and a
wrestling attack or two fisticuff attacks, brace up, and a wrestling
attack.
Fisticuffs. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage.
Wrestling. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: Creature is grappled or knocked prone, wrestler’s choice.
Brace Up. The wrestler gains 10 (1d8 + 6) temporary hit points.
Reactions
Quick Pin. When a creature provokes an opportunity attack
from the wrestler, the wrestler can use its reaction to make two
wrestling attacks against that creature.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
18 (+4) 10 (+0) 17 (+3) 12 (+1) 11 (+0) 13 (+1)
Boxer
Medium humanoid, unaligned
Armor Class 16 (leather armor)
Hit Points 85 (10d8 + 40)
Speed 30 ft.
Skills Athletics +7, Insight +2, Intimidation +4
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages Common
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Actions
Multiattack. The boxer makes four fisticuffs attacks or two
fisticuff attacks and brace up.
Fisticuffs. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 10 (1d10 + 5) bludgeoning damage.
Brace Up. The boxer gains 14 (1d10 + 9) temporary hit points.
Reactions
Cross Counter. When hit by a melee attack the boxer can use this
reaction to reduce the damage taken by the attack by 14 (1d10
+ 9). If this reduces the damage of the attack to 0 or lower, the
boxer may make a fisticuffs attack against the creature who made
the attack if they are within range.