Clan Crafter
The Stout Folk are well known for their artisanship and the worth of their handiworks, and you have been trained in that ancient tradition. For years you labored under a dwarf master of the craft, enduring long hours and dismissive, sour-tempered treatment in order to gain the fine skills you possess today.

You are most likely a dwarf, but not necessarily—particularly in the North, the shield dwarf clans learned long ago that only proud fools who are more concerned for their egos than their craft turn away promising apprentices, even those of other races. If you aren’t a dwarf, however, you have taken a solemn oath never to take on an apprentice in the craft: it is not for non-dwarves to pass on the skills of Moradin’s favored children. You would have no difficulty, however, finding a dwarf master who was willing to receive potential apprentices who came with your recommendation.

Skill Proficiencies:History, Insight
Tool Proficiencies:

- Choose an Artisan's Tool -
Dwarvish
As well respected as clan crafters are among outsiders, no one esteems them quite so highly as dwarves do. You always have free room and board in any place where shield dwarves or gold dwarves dwell, and the individuals in such a settlement might vie among themselves to determine who can offer you (and possibly your compatriots) the finest accommodations and assistance.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I'm full of witty aphorisms and have a proverb for every occasion.	+ Add
2	I believe that anything worth doing is worth doing right. I can’t help it—I’m a perfectionist.	+ Add
3	I’m a snob who looks down on those who can’t appreciate fine art.	+ Add
4	I always want to know how things work and what makes people tick.	+ Add
5	I’m rude to people who lack my commitment to hard work and fair play.	+ Add
6	I like to talk at length about my profession.	+ Add
7	I don’t part with my money easily and will haggle tirelessly to get the best deal possible.	+ Add
8	I’m well known for my work, and I want to make sure everyone appreciates it. I’m always taken aback when people haven’t heard of me.	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Aspiration: I work hard to be the best there is at my craft. (Any)	+ Add
2	Community. It is the duty of all civilized people to strengthen the bonds of community and the security of civilization. (Lawful)	+ Add
3	Generosity. My talents were given to me so that I could use them to benefit the world. (Good)	+ Add
4	Freedom. Everyone should be free to pursue his or her own livelihood. (Chaotic)	+ Add
5	Greed. I’m only in it for the money. (Evil)	+ Add
6	People. I’m committed to the people I care about, not to ideals. (Neutral)	+ Add
d6	Bonds	Random
1	The workshop where I learned my trade is the most important place in the world to me.	+ Add
2	I created a great work for someone, and then found them unworthy to receive it. I’m still looking for someone worthy.	+ Add
3	I owe my guild a great debt for forging me into the person I am today.	+ Add
4	I pursue wealth to secure someone’s love.	+ Add
5	One day I will return to my guild and prove that I am the greatest artisan of them all.	+ Add
6	I will get revenge on the evil forces that destroyed my place of business and ruined my livelihood.	+ Add
d6	Flaws	Random
1	I'm never satisfied with what I have― I always want more.	+ Add
2	I’ll do anything to get my hands on something rare or priceless.	+ Add
3	I’m quick to assume that someone is trying to cheat me.	+ Add
4	No one must ever learn that I once stole money from guild coffers.	+ Add
5	I would kill to acquire a noble title.	+ Add
6	I’m horribly jealous of anyone who can outshine my handiwork. Everywhere I go, I’m surrounded by rivals.	+ Add
