Cobalt Scholar
The Cobalt Soul is an organization of monastic scholars dedicated to preserving knowledge and recorded history, not just across Wildemount but all of Exandria. Its operations are primarily based out of the cities of Zadash and Rexxentrum in the Dwendalian Empire, and you likely studied at one of those sites.

As a rank-and-file pupil of the Cobalt Soul, you adventure to help expand your mind. Alternatively (and with the DM’s permission), you might also take on a more specific role within the organization. Expositors are secret agents who gather information in the field, while archivists are the curators who ensure the well-being of the Cobalt Soul’s many Archives. Monks of the Cobalt Soul are enlightened scholars who lead expeditions into ancient and forgotten places, hoping to reclaim their lost knowledge and history.

Skill Proficiencies:Arcana, History

- Choose a Language -

- Choose a Language -
When you attempt to learn or recall a piece of lore, if you do not know that information, you often know where and from whom you can obtain it. Usually, this information comes from a library, scriptorium, university, or a sage or other learned person or creature. Your DM might rule that the knowledge you seek is secreted away in an almost inaccessible place, or that it simply cannot be found. Unearthing the deepest secrets of the multiverse can require an adventure or even a whole campaign.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I use polysyllabic words that convey the impression of great erudition.	+ Add
2	I’ve read every book in the world’s greatest libraries—or I like to boast that I have.	+ Add
3	I’m used to helping out those who aren’t as smart as I am, and I patiently explain anything and everything to others.	+ Add
4	There’s nothing I like more than a good mystery.	+ Add
5	I’m willing to listen to every side of an argument before I make my own judgment.	+ Add
6	I … speak … slowly … when talking … to idiots, … which … almost … everyone … is … compared … to me.	+ Add
7	I am horribly, horribly awkward in social situations.	+ Add
8	I’m convinced that people are always trying to steal my secrets.	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Knowledge. The path to power and self-improvement is through knowledge. (Neutral)	+ Add
2	Beauty. What is beautiful points us beyond itself toward what is true. (Good)	+ Add
3	Logic. Emotions must not cloud our logical thinking. (Lawful)	+ Add
4	No Limits. Nothing should fetter the infinite possibility inherent in all existence. (Chaotic)	+ Add
5	Power. Knowledge is the path to power and domination. (Evil)	+ Add
6	Self-Improvement. The goal of a life of study is the betterment of oneself. (Any)	+ Add
d6	Bonds	Random
1	It is my duty to protect my students.	+ Add
2	I have an ancient text that holds terrible secrets that must not fall into the wrong hands.	+ Add
3	I work to preserve a library, university, scriptorium, or monastery.	+ Add
4	My life’s work is a series of tomes related to a specific field of lore.	+ Add
5	I’ve been searching my whole life for the answer to a certain question.	+ Add
6	I sold my soul for knowledge. I hope to do great deeds and win it back.	+ Add
d6	Flaws	Random
1	I am easily distracted by the promise of information.	+ Add
2	Most people scream and run when they see a demon. I stop and take notes on its anatomy.	+ Add
3	Unlocking an ancient mystery is worth the price of a civilization.	+ Add
4	I overlook obvious solutions in favor of complicated ones.	+ Add
5	I speak without really thinking through my words, invariably insulting others.	+ Add
6	I can’t keep a secret to save my life, or anyone else’s.	+ Add
