Feylost
You grew up in the Feywild after disappearing from your home plane as a child. Perhaps you were spirited away by kindly Fey who thought you were destined for great things. Perhaps you stumbled through a fey crossing by chance during a twilight stroll in the woods. Perhaps you were kidnapped by evil Fey but escaped from their clutches. Whatever the manner of your disappearance, you gradually fell under the Feywild’s spell and learned a little about the nature of the mercurial tricksters that dwell there.

When you finally returned to your home plane, you did not come back unchanged. You are haunted by the fact that the Feywild—a mirror world hidden behind a mere twist of perception—is only a hair’s breadth away. Although your memories of the Feywild grow fainter with each passing day, your heart swells with a mixture of fear and joy at the prospect of one day venturing back to the Plane of Faerie—your home away from home.

Skill Proficiencies:Deception

- Choose a Skill -
Tool Proficiencies:

- Choose a Musical Instrument -

- Choose a Language -
Your mannerisms and knowledge of fey customs are recognized by natives of the Feywild, who see you as one of their own. Because of this, friendly Fey creatures are inclined to come to your aid if you are lost or need help in the Feywild.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I’m haunted by fey laughter that only I can hear, though I know it’s just my mind playing tricks on me.	+ Add
2	Like a nomad, I can’t settle down in one place for very long.	+ Add
3	Good music makes me weep like a baby.	+ Add
4	Wherever I go, I try to bring a little of the warmth and tranquility of home with me.	+ Add
5	I have never lost my childlike sense of wonder.	+ Add
6	When I have a new idea, I get wildly excited about it until I come up with another, better idea.	+ Add
7	I live by my own set of weird and wonderful rules.	+ Add
8	I can’t bring myself to trust most adults.	+ Add
d8	Ideals	Random
1	Friendship. I never leave a friend behind. (Good)	+ Add
2	Empathy. No creature should be made to suffer. (Good)	+ Add
3	Wanderlust. I prefer to take the less traveled path. (Chaotic)	+ Add
4	Changeability. Change is good, which is why I live by an ever-changing set of rules. (Chaotic)	+ Add
5	Honor. A deal is a deal, and I would never break one. (Lawful)	+ Add
6	Rule of Three. Everything in the multiverse happens in threes. I see the “rule of three” everywhere. (Lawful)	+ Add
7	Obsession. I won’t let go of a grudge. (Evil)	+ Add
8	Greed. I will do whatever it takes to get what I want, regardless of the harm it might cause. (Evil)	+ Add
d8	Bonds	Random
1	I would never break my word.	+ Add
2	I find magic in all its forms to be compelling. The more magical a place, the more I am drawn to it.	+ Add
3	I do what I can to protect the natural world.	+ Add
4	A trusted friend is the most important thing in the multiverse to me.	+ Add
5	I can’t bring myself to harm a Fey creature, either because I consider myself one or because I fear the repercussions.	+ Add
6	The Witchlight Carnival feels like home to me.	+ Add
7	I’m drawn to the Feywild and long to return there, if only for a short while.	+ Add
8	I feel indebted to Mister Witch and Mister Light for giving me a home and a purpose.	+ Add
d8	Flaws	Random
1	I easily lose track of time. My poor sense of time means I’m always late.	+ Add
2	I think the whole multiverse is out to get me.	+ Add
3	I’m always operating under a tight timeline, and I’m obsessed with keeping everything on schedule.	+ Add
4	I’m a kleptomaniac who covets shiny, sparkling treasure.	+ Add
5	I’m forgetful. Sometimes I can’t remember even the simplest things.	+ Add
6	I never give away anything for free and always expect something in return.	+ Add
7	I have many vices and tend to indulge them.	+ Add
8	I’m always changing my mind—well, almost always.	+ Add
