Gladiator
A gladiator is as much an entertainer as any minstrel or circus performer, trained to make the arts of combat into a spectacle the crowd can enjoy. This kind of flashy combat is your entertainer routine, though you might also have some skills as a tumbler or actor.

Skill Proficiencies:Acrobatics, Performance
Tool Proficiencies:Disguise Kit

- Choose a Musical Instrument -
You can always find a place to perform in any place that features combat for entertainment — perhaps a gladiatorial arena or secret pit fighting club. At such a place, you receive free lodging and food of a modest or comfortable standard (depending on the quality of the establishment), as long as you perform each night. In addition, your performance makes you something of a local figure. When strangers recognize you in a town where you have performed, they typically take a liking to you.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I know a story relevant to almost every situation.	+ Add
2	Whenever I come to a new place, I collect local rumors and spread gossip.	+ Add
3	I’m a hopeless romantic, always searching for that “special someone.”	+ Add
4	Nobody stays angry at me or around me for long, since I can defuse any amount of tension.	+ Add
5	I love a good insult, even one directed at me.	+ Add
6	I get bitter if I’m not the center of attention.	+ Add
7	I’ll settle for nothing less than perfection.	+ Add
8	I change my mood or my mind as quickly as I change key in a song.	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Beauty. When I perform, I make the world better than it was. (Good)	+ Add
2	Tradition. The stories, legends, and songs of the past must never be forgotten, for they teach us who we are. (Lawful)	+ Add
3	Creativity. The world is in need of new ideas and bold action. (Chaotic)	+ Add
4	Greed. I’m only in it for the money and fame. (Evil)	+ Add
5	People. I like seeing the smiles on people’s faces when I perform. That’s all that matters. (Neutral)	+ Add
6	Honesty. Art should reflect the soul; it should come from within and reveal who we really are. (Any)	+ Add
d6	Bonds	Random
1	My instrument is my most treasured possession, and it reminds me of someone I love.	+ Add
2	Someone stole my precious instrument, and someday I’ll get it back.	+ Add
3	I want to be famous, whatever it takes.	+ Add
4	I idolize a hero of the old tales and measure my deeds against that person’s.	+ Add
5	I will do anything to prove myself superior to my hated rival.	+ Add
6	I would do anything for the other members of my old troupe.	+ Add
d6	Flaws	Random
1	I’ll do anything to win fame and renown.	+ Add
2	I’m a sucker for a pretty face.	+ Add
3	A scandal prevents me from ever going home again. That kind of trouble seems to follow me around.	+ Add
4	I once satirized a noble who still wants my head. It was a mistake that I will likely repeat.	+ Add
5	I have trouble keeping my true feelings hidden. My sharp tongue lands me in trouble.	+ Add
6	Despite my best efforts, I am unreliable to my friends.	+ Add
