Grinner
The Golden Grin began in the far-off land of Tal’Dorei, trading secret messages through a network of bards and minstrels to undermine an iron-fisted king’s authoritarian rule. Today, Tal’Dorei is a relatively peaceful republic, and some Grinners have grown restless while waiting for tyranny to raise its ugly head again. A contingent of such Grinners traveled to the Menagerie Coast and set up a network of secret bases in the cities of the Clovis Concord, from which they are presently working their way into the highest echelons of the Dwendalian Empire.

You are a Grinner. Your goals are to spread freedom and inspire hope—or, in time, revolution—in the hearts of the oppressed.

Skill Proficiencies:Deception, Performance
Tool Proficiencies:Thieves' Tools

- Choose a Musical Instrument -
Like every Grinner, you know how to find a hideout. In any city of 10,000 people or more on the Menagerie Coast or in the lands of the Dwendalian Empire, you can play the “Ballad of the Grinning Fool” in a major tavern or inn. A member of the Golden Grin will find you and give shelter to you and any companions you vouch for. This shelter might be discontinued if it becomes too dangerous to hide you, at the DM’s discretion.

This feature must be used with caution, for not all who know the ballad are your friends. Some are traitors, counterspies, or agents of tyranny.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I love the spotlight. Everyone, look at me!	+ Add
2	Give me a drink and I’m your friend.	+ Add
3	Talk to me about yourself. I’m a hell of a listener.	+ Add
4	I hate to start fights, but I love to finish them.	+ Add
5	I can’t sit still.	+ Add
6	I’m always humming an old tune from my past.	+ Add
7	When I don’t have a reason to smile, I’m miserable.	+ Add
8	I’m lucky like you wouldn’t believe.	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Revolution. Tyrants must fall, no matter the cost. (Chaotic)	+ Add
2	Compassion. The only way to make a better world is to perform small kindnesses. (Good)	+ Add
3	Justice. A nation built upon just foundations will uphold freedom for all. (Law)	+ Add
4	Expression. Music, joy, and laughter are the keys to freedom. (Good)	+ Add
5	Self-Determination. People should be free to do as they please. (Chaotic)	+ Add
6	Vigilance. A free people must be carefully taught, lest they be misled. (Neutral)	+ Add
d6	Bonds	Random
1	I lost someone important to an agent of the Dwendalian Empire. That regime will fall.	+ Add
2	The first people to be hurt by this war will be the common folk. I need to protect them.	+ Add
3	Music helped me through a dark time in my life. Now, I’ll use music to change the world.	+ Add
4	I will be known as the greatest spy who ever lived.	+ Add
5	All life is precious to me. I know I can change the world without taking a humanoid life.	+ Add
6	The elite in their ivory towers don’t understand how we suffer. I intend to show them.	+ Add
d6	Flaws	Random
1	I’ve never lied once in my life. What? No, I’m not crossing my fingers!	+ Add
2	I do everything big! Subtlety? I don’t know the meaning of subtlety! Oh, that’s a problem?	+ Add
3	Being a spy in wartime is painful. I’ve seen so much suffering, I think I’m losing my mind.	+ Add
4	I can’t focus on my mission. I just want to carouse and sing and play!	+ Add
5	Yeah, that’s my name. Yeah, I’m a Grinner spy. Who cares about staying undercover?	+ Add
6	I can’t afford to trust anyone. Not. Anyone.	+ Add
