Inheritor
You are the heir to something of great value — not mere coin or wealth, but an object that has been entrusted to you and you alone. Your inheritance might have come directly to you from a member of your family, by right of birth, or it could have been left to you by a friend, a mentor, a teacher, or someone else important in your life. The revelation of your inheritance changed your life, and might have set you on the path to adventure, but it could also come with many dangers, including those who covet your gift and want to take it from you — by force, if need be.

Skill Proficiencies:

- Choose a Skill -

- Choose a Skill -
Tool Proficiencies:

- Choose a Musical Instrument or Gaming Set -

- Choose a Language -
Choose or randomly determine your inheritance from among the possibilities in the table below. Work with your Dungeon Master to come up with details: Why is your inheritance so important, and what is its full story? You might prefer for the DM to invent these details as part of the game, allowing you to learn more about your inheritance as your character does.

The Dungeon Master is free to use your inheritance as a story hook, sending you on quests to learn more about its history or true nature, or confronting you with foes who want to claim it for themselves or prevent you from learning what you seek. The DM also determines the properties of your inheritance and how they figure into the item’s history and importance. For instance, the object might be a minor magic item, or one that begins with a modest ability and increases in potency with the passage of time. Or, the true nature of your inheritance might not be apparent at first and is revealed only when certain conditions are met.

When you begin your adventuring career, you can decide whether to tell your companions about your inheritance right away. Rather than attracting attention to yourself, you might want to keep your inheritance a secret until you learn more about what it means to you and what it can do for you.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I judge people by their actions, not their words.	+ Add
2	If someone is in trouble, I’m always ready to lend help.	+ Add
3	When I set my mind to something, I follow through no matter what gets in my way.	+ Add
4	I have a strong sense of fair play and always try to find the most equitable solution to arguments.	+ Add
5	I’m confident in my own abilities and do what I can to instill confidence in others.	+ Add
6	Thinking is for other people. I prefer action.	+ Add
7	I misuse long words in an attempt to sound smarter.	+ Add
8	I get bored easily. When am I going to get on with my destiny?	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Respect. People deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. (Good)	+ Add
2	Fairness. No one should get preferential treatment before the law, and no one is above the law. (Lawful)	+ Add
3	Freedom. Tyrants must not be allowed to oppress the people. (Chaotic)	+ Add
4	Might. If I become strong, I can take what I want—what I deserve. (Evil)	+ Add
5	Sincerity. There’s no good in pretending to be something I’m not. (Neutral)	+ Add
6	Destiny. Nothing and no one can steer me away from my higher calling. (Any)	+ Add
d6	Bonds	Random
1	I have a family, but I have no idea where they are. One day, I hope to see them again.	+ Add
2	I worked the land, I love the land, and I will protect the land.	+ Add
3	A proud noble once gave me a horrible beating, and I will take my revenge on any bully I encounter.	+ Add
4	My tools are symbols of my past life, and I carry them so that I will never forget my roots.	+ Add
5	I protect those who cannot protect themselves.	+ Add
6	I wish my childhood sweetheart had come with me to pursue my destiny.	+ Add
d6	Flaws	Random
1	The tyrant who rules my land will stop at nothing to see me killed.	+ Add
2	I’m convinced of the significance of my destiny, and blind to my shortcomings and the risk of failure.	+ Add
3	The people who knew me when I was young know my shameful secret, so I can never go home again.	+ Add
4	I have a weakness for the vices of the city, especially hard drink.	+ Add
5	Secretly, I believe that things would be better if I were a tyrant lording over the land.	+ Add
6	I have trouble trusting in my allies.