Knight of the Order
You belong to an order of knights who have sworn oaths to achieve a certain goal. The nature of this goal depends on the order you serve, but in your eyes it is without question a vital and honorable endeavor. Faerûn has a wide variety of knightly orders, all of which have a similar outlook concerning their actions and responsibilities.

Though the term “knight” conjures ideas of mounted, heavily armored warriors of noble blood, most knightly orders in Faerûn don’t restrict their membership to such individuals. The goals and philosophies of the order are more important than the gear and fighting style of its members, and so most of these orders aren’t limited to fighting types, but are open to all sorts of folk who are willing to battle and die for the order’s cause.

The “Knightly Orders of Faerûn” sidebar below details several of the orders that are active at present and is designed to help inform your decision about which group you owe allegiance to.

Skill Proficiencies:Persuasion

- Choose a Skill -
Tool Proficiencies:

- Choose a Musical Instrument or Gaming Set -
You receive shelter and succor from members of your knightly order and those who are sympathetic to its aims. If your order is a religious one, you can gain aid from temples and other religious communities of your deity. Knights of civic orders can get help from the community—whether a lone settlement or a great nation—that they serve, and knights of philosophical orders can find help from those they have aided in pursuit of their ideals, and those who share those ideals.

This help comes in the form of shelter and meals, and healing when appropriate, as well as occasionally risky assistance, such as a band of local citizens rallying to aid a sorely pressed knight in a fight, or those who support the order helping to smuggle a knight out of town when he or she is being hunted unjustly.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I’m always polite and respectful.	+ Add
2	I’m haunted by memories of war. I can’t get the images of violence out of my mind.	+ Add
3	I’ve lost too many friends, and I’m slow to make new ones.	+ Add
4	I’m full of inspiring and cautionary tales from my military experience relevant to almost every combat situation.	+ Add
5	I can stare down a hell hound without flinching.	+ Add
6	I enjoy being strong and like breaking things.	+ Add
7	I have a crude sense of humor.	+ Add
8	I face problems head-on. A simple, direct solution is the best path to success.	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Greater Good. Our lot is to lay down our lives in defense of others. (Good)	+ Add
2	Responsibility. I do what I must and obey just authority. (Lawful)	+ Add
3	Independence. When people follow orders blindly, they embrace a kind of tyranny. (Chaotic)	+ Add
4	Might. In life as in war, the stronger force wins. (Evil)	+ Add
5	Live and Let Live. Ideals aren’t worth killing over or going to war for. (Neutral)	+ Add
6	Nation. My city, nation, or people are all that matter. (Any)	+ Add
d6	Bonds	Random
1	I would still lay down my life for the people I served with.	+ Add
2	Someone saved my life on the battlefield. To this day, I will never leave a friend behind.	+ Add
3	My honor is my life.	+ Add
4	I’ll never forget the crushing defeat my company suffered or the enemies who dealt it.	+ Add
5	Those who fight beside me are those worth dying for.	+ Add
6	I fight for those who cannot fight for themselves.	+ Add
d6	Flaws	Random
1	The monstrous enemy we faced in battle still leaves me quivering with fear.	+ Add
2	I have little respect for anyone who is not a proven warrior.	+ Add
3	I made a terrible mistake in battle that cost many lives, and I would do anything to keep that mistake secret.	+ Add
4	My hatred of my enemies is blind and unreasoning.	+ Add
5	I obey the law, even if the law causes misery.	+ Add
6	I’d rather eat my armor than admit when I’m wrong.	+ Add
