Myriad Operative
Most criminals in Wildemount are petty thieves and cutpurses who operate out of desperation. You, however, are a criminal of a higher caliber. You are a member of the Myriad, the greatest crime syndicate to ever grace the face of Exandria. You have a network of criminal contacts and allies to help you in your crimes—but you also have rivals and superiors that would gladly throw you to the wolves to save their own skins.

The Myriad has bases of operation in every major city outside Eastern Wynandir, even if those bases are made up of only two or three members. Wherever you find the Myriad, you can find temporary shelter from the law—for a price.

Skill Proficiencies:Deception

- Choose a Skill -
Tool Proficiencies:Thieves' Tools

- Choose a Gaming Set -
You have a reliable and trustworthy contact who acts as your liaison to a network of other criminals. You know how to get messages to and from your contact, even over great distances; specifically, you know the local messengers, corrupt caravan masters, and seedy sailors who can deliver messages for you.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I always have a plan for what to do when things go wrong.	+ Add
2	I am always calm, no matter what the situation. I never raise my voice or let my emotions control me.	+ Add
3	The first thing I do in a new place is note the locations of everything valuable—or where such things could be hidden.	+ Add
4	I would rather make a new friend than a new enemy.	+ Add
5	I am incredibly slow to trust. Those who seem the fairest often have the most to hide.	+ Add
6	I don’t pay attention to the risks in a situation. Never tell me the odds.	+ Add
7	The best way to get me to do something is to tell me I can’t do it.	+ Add
8	I blow up at the slightest insult.	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Honor. I don’t steal from others in the trade. (Lawful)	+ Add
2	Freedom. Chains are meant to be broken, as are those who would forge them. (Chaotic)	+ Add
3	Charity. I steal from the wealthy so that I can help people in need. (Good)	+ Add
4	Greed. I will do whatever it takes to become wealthy. (Evil)	+ Add
5	People. I’m loyal to my friends, not to any ideals, and everyone else can take a trip down the Styx for all I care. (Neutral)	+ Add
6	Redemption. There’s a spark of good in everyone. (Good)	+ Add
d6	Bonds	Random
1	I’m trying to pay off an old debt I owe to a generous benefactor.	+ Add
2	My ill-gotten gains go to support my family.	+ Add
3	Something important was taken from me, and I aim to steal it back.	+ Add
4	I will become the greatest thief that ever lived.	+ Add
5	I’m guilty of a terrible crime. I hope I can redeem myself for it.	+ Add
6	Someone I loved died because of a mistake I made. That will never happen again.	+ Add
d6	Flaws	Random
1	When I see something valuable, I can’t think about anything but how to steal it.	+ Add
2	When faced with a choice between money and my friends, I usually choose the money.	+ Add
3	If there’s a plan, I’ll forget it. If I don’t forget it, I’ll ignore it.	+ Add
4	I have a “tell” that reveals when I’m lying.	+ Add
5	I turn tail and run when things look bad.	+ Add
6	An innocent person is in prison for a crime that I committed. I’m okay with that.	+ Add
