Prismari Student
You are an artist, and you have been preparing to hone your craft according to the traditions of Prismari College. Whatever your medium—sculpture, dance, paint, music, drama, architecture, or any other field—you have grand visions of bringing your art to life in a fusion of magic and creativity.

Skill Proficiencies:Acrobatics, Performance
Tool Proficiencies:

- Choose a Musical Instrument or Artisan's Tools -

- Choose a Language -
You gain the Strixhaven Initiate feat and must choose Prismari within it.

You have studied some magical theory and have learned a few spells associated with Strixhaven University.

Choose one of Strixhaven’s colleges: Lorehold, Prismari, Quandrix, Silverquill, or Witherbloom. You learn two cantrips and one 1st-level spell based on the college you choose, as specified in the Strixhaven Spells table.

You can cast the chosen 1st-level spell without a spell slot, and you must finish a long rest before you can cast it in this way again. You can also cast the spell using any spell slots you have.

Your spellcasting ability for this feat’s spells is Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma (choose when you select this feat).

Strixhaven Spells
College	Cantrips	1st-Level Spell
Lorehold	Choose two from light, sacred flame, and thaumaturgy.	Choose one 1st-level cleric or wizard spell.
Prismari	Choose two from fire bolt, prestidigitation, and ray of frost.	Choose one 1st-level bard or sorcerer spell.
Quandrix	Choose two from druidcraft, guidance, and mage hand.	Choose one 1st-level druid or wizard spell.
Silverquill	Choose two from sacred flame, thaumaturgy, and vicious mockery.	Choose one 1st-level bard or cleric spell.
Witherbloom	Choose two from chill touch, druidcraft, and spare the dying.	Choose one 1st-level druid or wizard spell.

- Choose an Option -
d6	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I’m the life of the party, and I expect everyone’s attention when I walk into a room.	+ Add
2	Two weeks ago, I was enthralled with my latest project. Now, I think it’s garbage and deserves to be destroyed.	+ Add
3	I believe everyone has the ability to express their truest selves through art, and I’m happy to quietly push them in the right direction.	+ Add
4	Everyone is a critic, and I work to win them all over.	+ Add
5	I’m beset with such an overwhelming sense of ennui regarding my art. Nothing quite captures my attention anymore.	+ Add
6	Instead of confronting my negative emotions, I channel them into explosive artistic displays.	+ Add
