Quandrix Student
In preparation to become a student of Quandrix College, you have spent years working through the college’s math problems for prospective students. Your interests concentrate on the mathematical principles and patterns found in the natural world. You might lean more toward mathematics or physics, or you delve into more abstract studies of metaphysics, arcana, or logic.

Skill Proficiencies:Arcana, Nature
Tool Proficiencies:

- Choose an Artisan's Tool -

- Choose a Language -
You gain the Strixhaven Initiate feat and must choose Quandrix within it.

You have studied some magical theory and have learned a few spells associated with Strixhaven University.

Choose one of Strixhaven’s colleges: Lorehold, Prismari, Quandrix, Silverquill, or Witherbloom. You learn two cantrips and one 1st-level spell based on the college you choose, as specified in the Strixhaven Spells table.

You can cast the chosen 1st-level spell without a spell slot, and you must finish a long rest before you can cast it in this way again. You can also cast the spell using any spell slots you have.

Your spellcasting ability for this feat’s spells is Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma (choose when you select this feat).

Strixhaven Spells
College	Cantrips	1st-Level Spell
Lorehold	Choose two from light, sacred flame, and thaumaturgy.	Choose one 1st-level cleric or wizard spell.
Prismari	Choose two from fire bolt, prestidigitation, and ray of frost.	Choose one 1st-level bard or sorcerer spell.
Quandrix	Choose two from druidcraft, guidance, and mage hand.	Choose one 1st-level druid or wizard spell.
Silverquill	Choose two from sacred flame, thaumaturgy, and vicious mockery.	Choose one 1st-level bard or cleric spell.
Witherbloom	Choose two from chill touch, druidcraft, and spare the dying.	Choose one 1st-level druid or wizard spell.

- Choose an Option -
d6	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	When I find a subject I’m interested in, I won’t stop studying until I know everything about it. It keeps me up at night.	+ Add
2	I hope this all makes sense to me one day. Until then, I’m going to keep faking it.	+ Add
3	Equations and patterns come naturally to my mind. I wish friendship came just as easily.	+ Add
4	I believe I’m always the smartest person in the room. And I’ll prove it, even if no one asks me to.	+ Add
5	If these classes have taught me anything, it’s that reality is a lie, and nothing matters. So why bother?	+ Add
6	Before I graduate, I want to achieve something mathematically impossible. I must leave a legacy!	+ Add
