Revelry Pirate
It seems that just about everyone is a sailor on the Menagerie Coast. Plenty of pirates ply the waters of the coast as well, but none are as infamous or as organized as the mighty Revelry. If you’re a pirate of the Revelry, you serve the Plank King and return a cut of all your plunder to him on the island of Darktow.

The Revelry doesn’t take kindly to traitors and deserters, so if you count yourself a former member of that crew, you’ll want to watch your back while traveling on the Menagerie Coast. Thugs might hassle you and your allies until you even the score with the Revelry, either by paying up, submitting to imprisonment, or proving that you’re too dangerous to tangle with.

You sailed on a seagoing vessel for years. In that time, you faced down mighty storms, monsters of the deep, and those who wanted to sink your craft to the bottomless depths. Your first love is the distant line of the horizon, but the time has come to try your hand at something new.

Discuss the nature of the ship you previously sailed with your Dungeon Master. Was it a merchant ship, a naval vessel, a ship of discovery, or a pirate ship? How famous (or infamous) is it? Is it widely traveled? Is it still sailing, or is it missing and presumed lost with all hands?

What were your duties on board—boatswain, captain, navigator, cook, or some other position? Who were the captain and first mate? Did you leave your ship on good terms with your fellows, or on the run?

Skill Proficiencies:Athletics

- Choose a Skill -
Tool Proficiencies:Navigator's Tools, Vehicles (Water)
When you need to, you can secure free passage on a sailing ship for yourself and your adventuring companions. You might sail on the ship you served on, or another ship you have good relations with (perhaps one captained by a former crewmate). Because you’re calling in a favor, you can’t be certain of a schedule or route that will meet your every need. Your Dungeon Master will determine how long it takes to get where you need to go. In return for your free passage, you and your companions are expected to assist the crew during the voyage.

d8	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	My friends know they can rely on me, no matter what.	+ Add
2	I work hard so that I can play hard when the work is done.	+ Add
3	I enjoy sailing into new ports and making new friends over a flagon of ale.	+ Add
4	I stretch the truth for the sake of a good story.	+ Add
5	To me, a tavern brawl is a nice way to get to know a new city.	+ Add
6	I never pass up a friendly wager.	+ Add
7	My language is as foul as an otyugh nest.	+ Add
8	I like a job well done, especially if I can convince someone else to do it.	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Respect. The thing that keeps a ship together is mutual respect between captain and crew. (Good)	+ Add
2	Fairness. We all do the work, so we all share in the rewards. (Lawful)	+ Add
3	Freedom. The sea is freedom—the freedom to go anywhere and do anything. (Chaotic)	+ Add
4	Mastery. I’m a predator, and the other ships on the sea are my prey. (Evil)	+ Add
5	People. I’m committed to my crewmates, not to ideals. (Neutral)	+ Add
6	Aspiration. Someday I’ll own my own ship and chart my own destiny. (Any)	+ Add
d6	Bonds	Random
1	I’m loyal to my captain first, everything else second.	+ Add
2	The ship is most important—crewmates and captains come and go.	+ Add
3	I’ll always remember my first ship.	+ Add
4	In a harbor town, I have a paramour whose eyes nearly stole me from the sea.	+ Add
5	I was cheated out of my fair share of the profits, and I want to get my due.	+ Add
6	Ruthless pirates murdered my captain and crewmates, plundered our ship, and left me to die. Vengeance will be mine.	+ Add
d6	Flaws	Random
1	I follow orders, even if I think they’re wrong.	+ Add
2	I’ll say anything to avoid having to do extra work.	+ Add
3	Once someone questions my courage, I never back down no matter how dangerous the situation.	+ Add
4	Once I start drinking, it’s hard for me to stop.	+ Add
5	I can’t help but pocket loose coins and other trinkets I come across.	+ Add
6	My pride will probably lead to my destruction.	+ Add
