Volstrucker Agent
The Volstrucker are a clandestine organization of arcane assassins and enforcers in the service of the Cerberus Assembly. Their operatives bear no official title, but are referred to in hushed tones as “scourgers” by residents of large Dwendalian cities such as Zadash and Rexxentrum.

You are a Volstrucker agent. Your duty is to silence dissidents who would undermine the will of King Dwendal—and more importantly, the will of the Assembly.

Skill Proficiencies:Deception

- Choose a Skill -
Tool Proficiencies:Poisoner's Kit

- Choose a Language -
You have access to the Volstrucker shadow network, which allows you to communicate with other members of the order over long distances. If you write a letter in a special arcane ink, address it to a member of the Volstrucker, and cast it into a fire, the letter will burn to cinders and materialize whole again on the person of the agent you addressed it to.

The ink used to send a letter across the shadow network is the same as that used by a wizard to scribe spells in a spellbook. Writing a letter in this ink costs 10 gp per page.

d6	Personality Traits (Choose Two)	Random
1	I prefer to keep my thoughts to myself.	+ Add
2	I indulge vice in excess to quiet my conscience.	+ Add
3	I’ve left emotion behind me. I’m now perfectly placid.	+ Add
4	Some event from the past keeps worming its way into my mind, making me restless.	+ Add
5	I always keep my word—except when I’m commanded to break it.	+ Add
6	I laugh off insults and never take them personally.	+ Add
d6	Ideals	Random
1	Order. The will of the crown is absolute. (Law)	+ Add
2	True Loyalty. The Cerberus Assembly is greater than any power, even the crown. (Law)	+ Add
3	Death. The penalty for disloyalty is death. (Evil)	+ Add
4	Determination. I cannot fail. Not ever. (Neutral)	+ Add
5	Fear. People should not respect power. They should fear it. (Evil)	+ Add
6	Escape. The Volstrucker are pure evil! I can’t atone for what I’ve done for them, but I can escape with my life. (Any)	+ Add
d4	Bonds	Random
1	The job is all that matters. I will see it through.	+ Add
2	My orders are important, but my comrades are worth more than anything. I would die for them.	+ Add
3	Everything I’ve done, I’ve done to protect someone close to me.	+ Add
4	If the empire falls, all of civilization falls with it. I will hold back chaos and barbarism at any cost.	+ Add
d4	Flaws	Random
1	I drink to dull the pain in the back of my head.	+ Add
2	I go a bit mad when I see blood.	+ Add
3	I can hear the voices of everyone I’ve killed. I see their faces. I can’t be free of these ghosts.	+ Add
4	Fear is a powerful motivator. I will do whatever it takes to prevent those who know what I am from seeing me fail, and from those I care about from knowing what I am.