Races of Lorwyn and Shadowmoor: Kithkin
Kithkin

Kithkin are a race of diminutive humanoids from the plane of Lorwyn. They live in farming village communities, known as clachans, where they grow crops and raise springjacks, a breed of goat that provide the kithkin with mounts, wool and meat. Their peaceful communities with strong tradition to healing magic demonstrate their ties to white mana.

Aside from their height, the defining feature of the kithkin is the thoughtweft - an innate psychic capability present in all kithkin that allows them to communicate telepathically with other nearby kithkin. As a peaceful people, this usually just aids in their day-to-day life, but should kithkin be driven to battle, their easy of communication makes them a force to be reckoned with.

On Shadowmoor, kithkin become overwhelmed by xenophobia and paranoia, fueled by the cruelty of the dark world around them. Their eyes cloud over in shades of white or gold, and their peaceful village communities become douns, fortified settlements, constantly patrolled in fear of any non-kithkin. The kithkin's paranoia is due to the mindweft, the shadowmoor name of the thoughtweft. When "normal" means sharing their thoughts is the basis of communication, any other creatures that cannot do so are not to be trusted, and are driven away by the paranoid kithkin.

Kithkin Traits

Your kithkin character has the following racial traits.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 1.

Age. Kithkin begin to mature in their teens, and live a similar lifespan to humans.

Alignment. Your alignment is dependent on your subrace.

Size. Kithkin average about 3 feet tall and weigh about 40 pounds. Your size is small.

Speed. You have a base walking speed of 25 feet.

Healer training. You have proficiency in the Medicine skill.

Thoughtweft/Mindweft. You can telepathically communicate with any conscious kithkin within 50 feet of you.

Languages. You speak common and kithkin. The kithkin language is rarely spoken aloud, as it's mainly used for communication with the thoughtweft/mindweft, but does have a written language. For non-native speakers, it's a difficult language to learn simply as a result of it not being designed to be spoken aloud.

Subrace. Depending on whether you are from Lorwyn or Shadowmoor, your subrace will either be a Lorwyn Kithkin or a Shadowmoor Kithkin.

Lorwyn Kithkin

All kithkin on Lorwyn have the following additional racial traits:

Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma score increases by 1.

Alignment. Kithkin of Lorwyn are typically the more lawful side of good, fighting to protect their communities, while also sharing their healing knowledge with the other races of Lorwyn.

Generous healing. When you take a short rest, characters that expend hit dice to recover hit points during that period may add your proficiency bonus to their hit dice rolls.

The Great Aurora. If you are present on Lorwyn during its transformation into shadowmoor, your subrace changes to Shadowmoor Kithkin.

Shadowmoor Kithkin

All kithkin on Shadowmoor have the following additional racial traits:

Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases by 1.

Alignment. Kithkin of Shadowmoor, tend towards the more lawful side of evil, zealously protecting their communities with a xenophobic hatred for outsiders.

Keen Sight. You gain advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.

The Great Aurora. If you are present on Shadowmoor during its transformation into Lorwyn, your subrace changes to Lorwyn Kithkin.